He said that it is important that we have the parliamentary majority to deliver change.
I have already taken three interventions and I have to think of my time.
So, such a body it is to be considered only as a possibility.
Brian Adam made a very constructive contribution, highlighting the real problems in the north east.
I agree with Fiona McLeod.
In the course of the debate, there were quite a number of interesting speeches.
Yes, I believe that there should be more local accountability.
We did not recommend that.
Would not that cancel out any benefits of buoyancy and flexibility.
We must ensure that that is delivered as quickly as possible.
Let us focus more on outcomes than inputs.
We have looked at preventative spending over the past three years.
As other members have said, talking about climate targets is simply not enough.
We must make the Scottish Executive realise that the matter is cross cutting.
Minister, you should come to a close, please.
I am sorry, Mr Brown.
I would like to hear peoples comments on that.
The benefit to which you refer would add to the administrative burden.
Some money would also be left over for the Edinburgh link.
Devo more also brings in the idea of tax sharing of VAT.
Something else that was not done was to think about the English regions.
People went out of business and contracts were changed.
It bears the hallmarks of all Tory taxes.
However, we will check to see where the concern came from.
The importance of the gearing effect can be exaggerated.
We are using the language that would be expected in an academic paper.
One can get hung up about the gearing effect.
The savings you generate will be in some way returned to your unit.
There is a difference in rationale between lowering the rate and devolving the power.
I presume that you would not support that.
It is apparent that Scottish consumers want to give active support to Scottish farmers.
You mentioned the number of reviews of local government finance that have taken place.
We have discussed this in the past.
That moves away from the referendum, but there are certainly murmurings, are there not.
Robin Harper made that point earlier.
I do not think that that is healthy from a democratic point of view.
Mr Swinneys exchange with George Lyon was an absolute joy to behold.
What are the main obstacles to SMEs getting access to finance just now.
The cabinet secretary should take note.
Before Mr Rennie asks a question, I ask everyone to wish him a happy birthday.
Willie Rennie has to answer a question about what he believes about other member states.
When the strategy is published, it must take that into account.
I cannot comment on them.
We can do it, though.
In the vast majority of cases, those targets are met.
Recruitment and retention are important.
There cannot be a theatre in every community.
When we get that information it will inform the debate.
Parents are involved in a school only because they have a child there.
If the evidence from those countries shows that, as you are asserting.
One main point that Mr Gallie makes is about the uniform standard.
On issues such as this we need to put the politics aside.
I will respond to other issues that were raised during the debate.
That would obviously be optimised if we were free of the UK financial straitjacket.
I sensed that there might be a surprise answer.
That is not a question to which I know the answer.
I will leave that to them and get back to the debate.
We can do the maths any way we like, but that is a significant issue.
Johann Lamont is not giving way.
You do not seem to think that it is enough.
There would clearly have been a significant shortfall in that case.
In Scottish terms, the best example was the Emirates route.
Those implications would have an impact on the industry in Scotland.
I thought that I was asking a question.
The pragmatic forward movement is much appreciated.
However, we now have a democratically elected Parliament.
I have no plans to do so in the near future.
I emphasise that we must ensure that carers are equal partners in the new organisations.
However, some of the evidence on revaluation from Wales is not positive.
What are your thoughts on that.
It pays to invest in the railways.
The process itself causes deterioration in mental health and leads to further depression and anxiety.
In that case, the Scottish Government should push strongly for more tax powers.
We have had a lot of experience of that.
I also thank Brenda Campbell, Vicki Lewis and Sarah Fortune.
I think that that brings this evidence taking session to a natural end.
I want to change the subject completely.
I am interested in how we could resolve that conflict.
We have problems with the definition of a small business.
The issue goes back to reliance on only one tax.
We use them in the construction of roads, schools, hospitals, houses and so on.
It is an issue of timing and prioritisation.
By doing so, we will make major reductions in class sizes over time.
There is a very real danger there.
The aim is not to start something new or to make changes overnight.
I have been thinking back on our exchanges over the past four years.
Rob Gibson rightly mentioned the Nicholas Stern report.
Can you expand on that Was it quite a significant problem.
be developed in tandem to ensure policy integration and alignment.
Expenditure assessment is a very clear and simple way of calculating funding.
The governance aspect within the NPDO lends an added dimension to a PPP.
The minister mentioned that Mr Hains participation in the inquiry was welcome.
However, there are a couple of practical difficulties in devolving the taxes.
It depends on the proposals.
We must have a seamless service for individuals who access services in this area.
I found the tables in the report fascinating.
The proposal does not involve control over taxation.
Alex Neil said quite a lot about that.
We agree that any system that has higher administrative costs needs to be questioned.
Corporation tax has been mentioned on many occasions, particularly by certain commentators.
I am not convinced by the ministers earlier argument that changes have taken place.
When the link was built, Stansted had fewer passengers than Edinburgh or Glasgow.
I wish to pursue the matter slightly further.
The trouble with banding is the cliff edge effect.
However, we accept that all local government systems are fraught with difficulties.
We do not have all the dots on the map that we crave.
Similarly, third sector organisations and businesses will benefit from a collaborative approach.
That exposes the inherent hypocrisy of the SNP.
The SNPs proposal is unacceptable.
SNP members are always coming to the chamber and making spending commitments.
So, the provision is not new.
But you have switched again.
I remind members to keep their questions short and to the point, if they can.
I have one further question before I open it up to committee members.
There are any number of issues there.
There must be some compensation.
My firm and others commented on that during the consultation on the bill.
Speeches will be six minutes.
As well as dealing with the legislation, we would need to sort out the infrastructure.
For reasons best known to itself, the DWP has changed its mind on that.
I look forward to hearing the contribution of colleagues.
I might have taken it down wrongly.
Such matters are for the local council to resolve with its population.
He has had no questions selected in the same period.
It overcomes some of the perverse incentives.
Those comments and indeed your briefing paper have been very helpful.
I think that we have covered the point.
On the one hand, we are given ill informed diatribes about the project.
Avoidance involves working with the legislation and doing what it allows.
All this takes place in a charging system that is riddled with anomalies.
It is treated as a reduction of expenditure.
We seek a supplement to the council tax, rather than an alternative to it.
However, the prospects are good.
There are contradictory views on whether business in Scotland is underregulated or overregulated.
To my mind, the students without borders initiative has been a great success.
A figure of nil suggests that we think there is no cost.
It simply would not work.
Thank you for attending, Sir Kenneth.
Are you saying that, if south east England is booming, that is good for Stornoway.
Local authorities decide how GAE and assessed income are spent.
We are very grateful for that and welcome the opportunity to contribute to the inquiry.
Yes, but they would benefit from your proposals.
We will also set national care standards for private dentistry and for independent health care.
My knowledge of local government finance has deteriorated over the years.
That said, there are various precedents.
What does the bill do It does two main things.
All he wanted was to be at home.
I can go away and come back with a note for the committee.
People in my constituency are questioning what they should do.
I do not have time.
They are all practical responses to help people get on.
There must be space for people to explore ideas, wherever those ideas may take us.
It has been through extensive scrutiny on different levels.
COSLA has not taken a view on that, but I take your point.
I will leave it there, Presiding Officer.
However, there are those who just do not get it.
Sorry, what is your point of order.
We constantly hear that the pressures and demands on local government are increasing.
As I said in my opening remarks, we will keep an eye on the issue.
I will now deal with the issues that the report raises.
Would they benefit from the proposal.
That is not the way the commission worked, at all.
The second thing is my experience of business.
We were glad to hear him say that he would make that approach.
That will, of course, be kept under review by Police Scotland.
I will be happy to talk about why I take that position.
I am talking about wealth.
However, I have lost contact with the scheme since leaving that school.
However, the guidance that we have set out must be implemented.
I know that the police will be very happy to provide that advice locally.
I suggested clearly that all members of the bòrd should be Gaelic speakers.
A hard look has been taken at our structures.
The same is true of Glasgow airport.
Our approach has worked pretty well up to now.
Campbell Evans will not need to sit between the two of them after all.
Separately, the National Audit Office annual audit report will be laid before Parliament.
The first concern was whether the tax was a local tax.
The bill seems very like the UK arrangements.
That places them at considerable disadvantage.
National priorities are also delivered locally.
The easiest method is something that is called formulary apportionment.
Normally, we would expect the tax system to address that.
I cited the Chinese example earlier, which concerned APD from the UK perspective.
We work very closely together, so that is fine.
We would like to get involved in that.
Fiona Hyslop mentioned the big role that the public sector can play.
Nobody could disagree with that sentiment, but it gave us nothing to work with.
In our view, the evidence was not strong on the matter.
It is a wonderful theory that computers do these things in a nanosecond.
If you want more creative suggestions, I am pretty sure that officers can provide them.
Perhaps I can pursue that matter later.
Under that arrangement, the two things are compatible.
There are strong economic arguments for reducing corporation tax.
We know what he said.
We must make that point.
I invite the minister, in a few minutes, to speak and act for Scotland.
I congratulate Alasdair Allan on securing tonights debate.
Our evidence just goes through what the economics would say.
That will happen under LBTT anyway.
The cases are not the same.
Our work was based on the existing level of tax that is raised.
You referred to Standard Life.
I welcome the fall in addiction, but it remains a substantial source of social problems.
Perhaps we will look at that as a family.
We must discuss those views with business and the Scottish Executive.
It is clear that some action is necessary.
I would like to explore one particular point.
Increased food prices are mentioned too, but they are not due to the recession.
I will take one step back.
Time and events have moved on.
In The Mirrlees Review there is a fascinating table.
It seems to me that there are several perverse incentives.
In fact, she has gone beyond her last minute.
There appear to be a couple of issues on the charter.
I also want to thank him on a personal level.
I take it that nobody from the Inland Revenue is appearing before the committee today.
It is based on UK revenue.
I am comfortable with the timetable as it stands.
We are happy just to start.
I agree that everyone should challenge themselves and do better all the time.
He will have to get a new shirt.
Do you have an opinion on that.
The Government has made clear its commitment to the Borders railway.
Such measures are fully supervised and fully endorsed by HMRC.
This is the first day of the Royal Highland show at Ingliston.
But there are compensatory elements in the income tax arrangements.
We need to see more of that in the future.
The minister is in splendid and insecure isolation.
Perhaps this is the time to stimulate the home market.
However, there is a deafening silence from local government itself.
That might be one of the issues on which he chooses to do so.
We are all determined that there should be progress.
It is very important that you hear this.
That would be even worse.
The SPTC submission says Coping with change is simply part of the human condition.
I appreciate that and I understand why the organisations might hold different views.
At that point, I decided that I would stop listening to such comments.
So the issue is well worth considering.
I am aware that we have a broad range of experience on the panel.
I cannot give such an indication today.
I am anticipating that it will agree.
Stagnation has descended on this and other key railway projects.
Within a few weeks of that announcement, a dentist declares that they are going private.
Will the member take an intervention on that point.
The Scottish and UK Governments will have to plan to reduce any potential uncertainties.
Studies are mentioned in the committees evidence.
I have a question for the purposes of clarification.
The high tax model is not universally accepted, by any stretch of the imagination.
We must monitor implementation and encourage progress from modest beginnings.
We are coming to an historic conclusion  the Scottish Parliaments first Gaelic language act.
I am sure that that debate will carry on.
I think that we have got your point, Ms Eadie.
The comprehensive spending review is not a process that happens to ministers.
Is the Executive always right, Mike.
That is the cushion that you would need.
As Annabel Goldie knows, we are working to freeze the council tax.
It is difficult to do so because of the diverse nature of our local authorities.
Not even Tommy Sheridan has proposed two taxes.
Fundamental to all that is a need to reconsider class sizes.
We have had a slow start with procurement, but the wheels are now moving.
The SNP does not, however, agree with all the reports recommendations.
That impinges on what local authorities can deliver, and on a number of other areas.
My point is that wealth is taxed already.
It also said that we would be updated on that.
The argument goes back and forth between those two.
I do not see any difficulty in considering any of the options for that.
They said, Theres a debate next week on sailing.
I do not think that those problems are by any means insuperable.
COSLA and the local authorities have worked with us very constructively.
That centre, followed by the establishment of a dental school, is now on the cards.
Do you mean what I spoke about this morning.
SOFT UK obviously does an excellent job in providing information.
He also discovered that people frequently used the same combination for different locks.
Jackie Baillie referred to cost shunting issues, as did the cabinet secretary earlier this week.
A consultation on that will happen at the earliest opportunity.
Can you tell me a bit more about that consultation.
I would say that they are capable.
The Scottish Government is committed to supporting sustainable economic growth and job creation throughout Scotland.
I agree with her comments on the right to buy and pressured areas.
I should point out that I continue to meet COSLA to discuss ring fencing.
I thank the minister for her comments and support on this matter.
The Gaelic language is a precious jewel in the heart and soul of Scotland.
However, more money is not enough.
We have included the sector in our economic recovery plan.
So what would be a realistic sum.
It comes down to a political question.
Who their contacts are is very important.
So there is not any further contingency fund as such.
I will ask members to cast their vote for their preferred candidate.
The current funding arrangements are too highly geared and lack transparency.
We should reflect on Irene Oldfathers closing sentiments.
Some have suggested that if we taxed the rich appropriately, they would leave the country.
I am pleased to be giving evidence to the committee.
The committee should play a part in influencing the content of the bill.
The independence of the commissioner is a necessary guarantee of impartiality and objectivity.
It is important that the views of Scotland are heard.
Therefore, there is, informally at least, a league table.
We welcome representatives of Argyll and Bute Council.
Adequate powers are only part of the story, where public confidence is concerned.
It is important to recognise that there are different levels of support.
We would need to approach that sensitively.
They have found a Lib Dem voter in Glenrothes.
Should that not give you pause for reflection.
The idea is valuable and needs working up.
I have never been convinced that a UK wide uniform business rate is necessary.
As Bristow Muldoon has said, the scientists do not yet have solutions to those problems.
I understand that prudential rules will not be introduced immediately.
The modern apprenticeship scheme helps to encourage and promote that.
We should debate that paper no later than two weeks from now.
I remind members that that is over the five year period.
The paper considered the costs.
Was it of no consequence.
I hope that all of you have had the time to read through my paper.
We should not be scared to talk about it.
I am a bit concerned.
Trade unions are in decline throughout the world, including in the Nordic countries.
It is an individual choice, I guess.
That is my bottom line.
I do not campaign to MSPs telling them what they should do with their pensions.
That is a ring fenced commitment.
I took the trouble to read it.
If that was a serious proposal, I would not have any difficulty with it.
The difficulty with the bill is that we cannot quantify that funding at the moment.
I am aware of the debate the other week, which Neil Findlay led.
It carries out excellent work on breaking down the barriers that surround autism.
There is a lot that you can do now.
I frankly and freely concede that everything is not perfect with the status quo.
We now move to the open debate.
The committee will always treat you and your proposals with respect.
I would have to look at that again.
I am now on a university lecturer salary, which is well above average.
Did the group merge with another group.
That does not indicate clear lines of accountability.
We are talking about a harmful and addictive product that requires regulation.
I remain convinced that the process was robust and stand by it.
That reflects the hard work and dedication of the staff and managers at Peterhead.
By profession, I am a chartered surveyor.
I ask Professor Begg to make some introductory remarks before we move to questions.
We are delivering opportunities by investing in and increasing the skills of Scotlands workforce.
I would be cautious about that.
We should proceed with taxing second homes at the correct level.
We must provide training and personal development.
I do not doubt that the committee and the Parliament will return to it.
I hope that my written evidence speaks for itself, so I will leave it there.
That was not quite an extra statutory concession.
In practice, there is no problem.
The fourth is markets and careers and training in aquaculture.
In a sense, Westminster and Whitehall are inevitably dominated by a London and UK agenda.
Secretary of state, you said that you are not persuaded on the joint commencement.
We were talking about administration costs.
Beyond that, it does not matter.
That is a positive step.
Independent schools often find themselves in a difficult economic position.
Thank you very much for your substantive submission.
All the studies are based on the share that regional government raises and spends.
We must get more housing for the public money we spend.
The administration depends on what is being administered.
That is okay in urban areas, but it is more difficult in the country.
Proposals exist for such schools in Portree, Barra, Fort William and Edinburgh among other places.
That would make more sense than our writing to the Presiding Officer.
That is the clarification that I was seeking.
They must be built both for rent and for sale.
The minister cannot substantiate that.
Any careful analysis will reveal that the two are inseparable.
That is our best estimate of what it will cost, in its entirety.
The response was that it could not give evidence at such short notice.
The first time was during the snowfall in March.
Some of the suggestions that I have heard this evening need to be examined.
I am very happy to correct and balance up the presentation on that particular subject.
However, scarce resources should be directed where they will do most good.
We must obtain a balance in the system.
I am talking about payment.
I will let the minister in later if I have enough time to do so.
There is a dynamic at work here.
We can discuss that later.
Generally speaking, I do not think that there is any great virtue in contracting out.
With respect, that is pretty self evident.
Members cannot rubbish what they first supported.
Indeed, it is already a matter of record.
I spoke to Fergus Ewing on that point briefly after last Tuesdays committee meeting.
Statutory obligations have first call on a councils resources.
I now have a copy of the technical note, for which I thank Ms McAlpine.
There is definitely evidence on that.
Even though the question is hypothetical, I give the committee that assurance right now.
That is only right when many areas face particular supply pressures.
In the recent agreement on conditions of service, the management side threw down the gauntlet.
I look forward to the ministers response.
We are not members of the European Union in terms of taxation.
Will you briefly augment that point.
I want people to think about some of the hard issues.
The UK has higher tax rates.
That would require a joint agreement between the Scottish and United Kingdom Governments.
That is a large question.
In future, we cannot have an opt in and opt out approach.
Any income tax is a tax on working.
The euro is a genuine example of scaremongering within this debate.
There are some concerns about the environmental consequences of a growing aquaculture industry.
The bill brings all those key principles together.
A couple of members want to ask questions.
Professor Bailey, I believe that you wish to come back in on the earlier discussion.
Whether decisions are made in one part of Government or another is less important.
My suggestion is worth examining, although I am not saying that it would work.
The criteria for charging vary widely.
Can we just get a question, Ms Murray.
Could we not cut down on all that nonsense.
He is constrained to advising us on his role.
The committee should consider that in the broad, strategic sense of evaluating budget proposals.
The easy answer to the second question is the provinces of Canada.
However, from what the minister says, that commitment no longer seems to hold true.
I hope the Government will consider those suggestions.
I would like to make a point about the final footnote in the report.
However, I will not advance that particular argument.
There is an opportunity to do something different.
Ten days ago, the First Minister said There is no need for us to raise taxes.
If anything, it could be done much more quickly.
The bill would provide no opportunity to vary non income tax rates.
I think mess could be used instead.
There are cuts in the laudable care in the community programme.
I would need a lawyer to tell me that that was possible.
I hope that you can give us a simple answer.
People want good quality services, which they recognise must be paid for.
Some people might say that that was pushing the concept a touch too far.
We have introduced the minimum grant floor, which council tax levels reflect.
I do not understand how any instability or uncertainty would be created.
Mr Smith said that there is PFI/PPP fatigue in some councils.
The Inland Revenue must deal with that problem regardless of the local taxation system.
There is no lack of competition with regard to the business rate here in Scotland.
I am qualified in English law and Scots law.
Corporation tax is clearly an important part of that.
People say that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, so I am flattered.
The purpose is also to illustrate areas where good practice is being undertaken.
The third is that there has been a lot of comparison made with Ireland.
In all seriousness, Scotland and the UK would have a shared interest in the issue.
Those two effects work in different directions.
That should be recognised in the discussion on missing the annual target.
The petition is outstanding from the Parliaments first year of operation.
Equally, that enables us to meet some of our public service staffing needs.
I wrote to ScotRail in April to highlight the issue and ask for a meeting.
I have one other question, for David McNeish.
It is highly unlikely that we could conclude the negotiations before then.
Absolutely, because, as you have acknowledged, this proposal has to work within the UK context.
We want to know what level of local income tax would be considered appropriate.
I would have thought that that would involve reviewing the Barnett formula.
More generally, I have spent my life believing in and advocating evidence based policy.
We would not go that far.
We are hopeful that careers Scotland will encourage pupils to take up science subjects.
He went over the time that he was allowed.
We now move to the open debate, and I call for speeches of six minutes.
I welcome you all and thank you for coming.
They remain entirely legitimate commercial arrangements.
You suggested that you agree with those principles.
Those children currently fare worst of all.
Yet even politicians suffer some pangs.
Given that most countries do this, one cannot be too critical about it.
We cannot touch the benefit system, because that power is reserved.
If that is the case, one wonders why you are proceeding with it.
Local government is now beginning to think about all this.
I will take the example of a popular vodka that was formerly distilled in Warrington.
I know that the committee discussed the issue with DWP officials.
I do not recall those individuals giving evidence to the commission.
We expect to publish it in due course.
Given that we are a large, complex organisation, we can seek underspends in some areas.
I did not say that.
I have a couple of points to add.
It depends how much wider it is expected that access should go.
The Scottish Labour point is slightly to the north east of the Scotland Act point.
It is interesting that Fergus Ewing has left the chamber.
However, the point that I keep making is that the devolved tax must be usable.
I do not think that there is a particular guarantee.
Am I misreading the point.
That might drive further change and reform.
That is why we used those proportions and applied them as assumptions.
Perhaps an accompanying letter, or something of that sort, is required.
I congratulate the industry and commend the motion.
Half of those people started their treatment in nine weeks or less.
However, my organisation will engage proactively with whoever has the power.
Minister, you have seven minutes.
That would be quite inappropriate.
My constituency has thousands of people living in it from across the European Union.
The petitioners have done well by raising the issue.
Inequality leads to material disadvantage.
Will the member take an intervention from me.
Perhaps we can both look at that one.
Margaret Cuthbert wants to come in on some of this stuff.
Some of those will have a Scottish rate element.
We know how the Barnett formula works.
That takes us back to the question of flexibility.
That is a fair comment.
Now he says that the problem lies somewhere else.
I ask Peter Kelly to confirm what he knows.
If income across regions is to be compared, it should be real income.
I think that you said that groups of people in Denmark make those decisions locally.
That merely emphasises the randomness of the selection procedure.
We will conduct a generic overview of the issues.
That is the point that I am driving at.
I was wondering about your thoughts on those issues.
APD is not and cannot be the main thrust of these discussions.
We must protect our reputation for having a product of excellence.
As a migrant to Scotland, I can speak only for my own mind.
In fact, personnel were brought in from Grampian, Tayside and Lothian to help the service.
I will quickly summarise the research before members ask questions.
The recalibration idea has tremendous dangers.
Our members have diverse views on the benefits of devolving any tax.
I can return to the member with a timescale at that point.
I remind the minister that we are dealing with charitable organisations.
I am not sure whether that answers all your questions.
That will be a major step for us.
The distribution of where revenue comes from is different.
There will therefore be both a prospective and retrospective aspect of looking at taxation.
Is there any prospect that that figure will rise, or is it set in concrete.
However, that is the reality for pensioners in Scotland today.
I will address that in my speech.
I will not do that.
Those are the cases in my in tray.
I find the absence of a station at the airport incomprehensible.
All too often, there has been a revolving door situation in that Government agency.
I welcome Drew Scott, who has now joined us for the session.
From that, I take a pretty strong mandate to get on and deliver the legislation.
How that will be dealt with is not at all clear.
In particular, it involves an asymmetric transfer of risk.
We disagree with the idea that not having more taxes increases risk.
Stewart Maxwell is very keen to comment before he has to go to the chamber.
That is what really worries me.
It is a tough political choice.
Will the member take a supplementary.
That was very good, Mr McGrigor, but you did not speak to the amendment.
Local government would not want to impose taxation changes.
The impact of tax on business has become far more visible.
We cannot speak for them.
I cannot see any detail in there, despite what Mr Swinney says.
Scotland is an attractive place to visit.
As I said, that demonstrates common sense and good will on both sides.
As a result, pensioners incomes have been hugely hit.
But you suggested discussions on the matter in your report.
My answer had slotted into place before October, and I wrote it up.
We have been investigating the situation in relation to title deeds in Scotland.
During the years that the Conservatives were in government, we controlled a number of authorities.
We are particularly concerned about old railway lines being incorporated into the national cycle network.
I congratulate Mr MacAskill on his debut.
I am not party to those figures.
When can we expect some action on the action plan.
Let us face it  nothing else works.
Great progress is being made in Dundee.
I support the Government motion and welcome the infrastructure investment plan.
That will provide the basis for proceeding to the third and final stage in September.
We would like lower taxes.
The OECD study is more international and does not cover just Europe.
The key ingredients of the bill can be summarised briefly.
As Jim Hume said, such moves are good for the economy.
Those are precisely the emotions that no police force wants to generate.
It is not helpful consistently to call the bureau a shambles, as Mr Neil does.
Several members have rightly stressed the importance of environmental responsibility.
I would hate Alex Neil to draw the wrong conclusion.
Those outcomes include enabling the switch from cars to rail and low carbon transport.
The ridgeway is a perfect example.
We should hardly be surprised that we are falling behind other areas.
She expressed concerns and identified issues on which Scotland has much at stake.
But you said that when you appeared before our predecessor committee.
Indeed, we are pleased with the proposals in that respect.
There is no great contention in the Parliament about how to do that.
There seems to be broad agreement from London on that.
I was disappointed that the report seemed to some extent to imply that.
Like Judith Gillespie, I think that information and communications technology will play an important part.
In general, the market has become comfortable with funding the organisations on that basis.
There is a different political agenda here, although it is not completely different.
However, another way of looking at it is the practical way.
That is two votes for resources.
I welcome the fact that the Green party has proposals on land value tax.
Compliance costs need to be taken in the round.
Geographically, the changes would be really dramatic, particularly in England.
There are three models for a local income tax.
It is important to remember the basis of the original cost estimates that we published.
I will look at the point in the light of what has been said.
I return to Michael Clancy.
The Executives comment is that prosecutions can be brought when sufficient evidence exists.
Much good activity goes on in management development in Scotland.
That will give openness and transparency.
Councils and the Government need to stand up to those people.
Perhaps that question should be for David Glen.
Nothing in the proposals that have been outlined by the Conservatives would change that position.
Is having full fiscal autonomy a very risky position for the UK to be in.
It is surprising that the reaction was not more negative.
But you do not say what proportion of the Scottish population that income represents.
Professor Mirrlees, the convener raised the issue of avoidance.
GDP is a useful concept, but you must understand what is involved.
I am sure that the cabinet secretary will respond to them in due course.
That is why we chose it.
I have made two points.
However, I will not go to the wall on it.
If I understand it correctly, there are two bits to that.
Feedback from local people who I have spoken to so far has been mixed.
I do not think that everything should be localised.
You can ask a question if you like.
I am quite happy to look at that precedent.
It is easy for us to be naive about our ability to make change happen.
I congratulate Richard Baker on bringing this important subject to the attention of Parliament.
History tells us that that is so.
If that is the case, such a situation is untenable.
I do not think that anybody would come up with any other view.
It is worth making one or two important points.
I assure members in the chamber that the pupils are wiser to that now.
We have not done that so far, but we hope to start quite soon.
It is too early to say what will emerge from the study.
That is one of the fundamental problems that older people face.
There is also a challenge for MSPs, if we are to do our jobs properly.
We are trying to give rural areas an advantage.
I am happy to go with option B.
You say that you wanted a council tax freeze for only two years.
It must be put on a firm footing.
Land is an untaxed factor of production that cannot be created or destroyed.
The question is a political one.
Surely the present Government could do something similar.
That is a particular hobby horse of mine.
Those figures are absolutely unacceptable.
Is your question on this point, Mr Don, or are you taking advantage.
I am not going to go into the details of the income tax collection system.
I congratulate the committee on giving us much food for thought.
However, you need to be careful about the incentives that you end up with.
I do not agree that there is an overall loss of playing fields.
I have a quick point.
That is all very interesting, but we must have a question.
Should the register cover all positions.
Local Government andCommunities Committee	Robert Brown.
I can be part of their learning.
The First Minister can no longer duck and he can no longer dive.
A lot of people might think that that is not fair.
Thank you all very much.
It is difficult for us to comment on the transitional water rates relief scheme.
I commend the minister and the Executive for what has been done.
Can you tell me what that means.
That is what I was going to say in my answer.
On the whole, people thought that the tartan tax power was not too large.
Data security is quite important.
It makes sense to join the two petitions together.
It is not in the bill, of course.
The committee has also moved the argument forward on taxation on second homes.
Primary and nursery schools and further education are better in that respect.
Under the bill, you will have financial certainty for three years.
We therefore welcome the commitment to keep the current system under review.
Well, that does it, then.
We will nevertheless continue to exert as much influence as we can.
Taxes on capital stifle investment and dissuade us from saving.
I agree with five words of Tommy Sheridans amendment.
That is what is needed if we are not continually to have this debate.
It is not a joint decision making body.
They feel disengaged from politics and government at both national and local levels.
I want to move on to the question of income tax.
There is a huge range of costs, which cannot be linked to reality.
Will the member give way.
There is no indexing, no relationship, no formula.
I found your paper very interesting.
I doubt that that was untypical of councils and health boards across the country.
They enter modern terminal buildings, of which we are proud.
What specific plans does the Executive have to force that agenda on.
Our members see it as potentially benefiting their businesses over the longer term.
The campaign slogan was Beer is Best For A Fitter Britain.
The issue relates to charges and the redefinition of discretionary services.
The numbers of children in care have steadily increased over the past few years.
There is a slight danger of confusion between headquarters functions and high value added functions.
At that time, little financial information and cost information was provided by others.
Having two bookable spaces is woeful in this day and age.
We could have a battle of statistics if he wants, but let me move on.
Its position is simply about symbolism, not about substance.
Do you see any disadvantages.
The practice of forecasting might actually smooth the deductions that you get.
The manner in which the registration and declaration of interests is handled reflects those differences.
That is a very crude way of approaching the issue, but it shows huge differences.
I would not say that there are a great number of appeals.
That was around the same time as the report on transport infrastructure projects.
That area of policy needs urgent attention.
I do not say that flippantly.
No one else has been able to do it, either.
I am concerned that that amendment contains a significant factual error.
It relates to the leak from the cities review team.
I value the opportunity to contribute to this important debate on access to dental services.
We should not lose sight of that point when we look at the conference outcomes.
That again is quite difficult to disentangle.
The political parties need to think about the issue.
I will return briefly to the substantive issue of borrowing powers.
We are not operating in a perfect world.
Secondly, there has to be sufficient background explanation so that it is accessible to people.
That headline has set off the debate.
Members will be aware that the consultation on that issue has just finished.
And should happen as soon as possible.
They think that they can get out there and achieve something.
They are the important people in the debate.
Thank you for this opportunity to give evidence and set out some thoughts.
Again, the Strathclyde commission, which you advised, called for the devolution of that tax power.
I would not say anything at all.
That is how we measure and those are the results.
Inevitably, there are budgets for and agreements about expenditure at different levels of government.
Eleven health boards were affected, as was the Scottish Ambulance Service.
That will come as no great surprise to anyone.
For that reason, the more we can become self sufficient the better.
The oil and gas industry needs a stable and predictable fiscal regime.
The process has been problematic for us, because it is very wide ranging.
We believe that that will create better life chances for all our young people.
The median wait in Scotland is shorter than anywhere else in the United Kingdom.
I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this worthwhile debate.
We have had no contact with local authorities abroad.
In other words, there could be discretion to give limited access.
I would like the minister to clarify matters.
Although the timetable for reaching agreement is now challenging, it is not beyond reason.
I will press you on joint commencement.
Therefore, there is a question to be answered there.
Meanwhile, every effort must be made to give life to Gaelic.
Property values bear little relation to peoples ability to pay.
Bristow Muldoon rightly highlighted the massive write off of debt in any changeover.
You also mention a possible safety valve, which would have some reference to rural deprivation.
That seems to me to be an important and crucial aim.
However, the Government has brought forward no proposals for us to examine.
It is a figure that you can debate.
However, a close second priority would be setting proper limits on the borrowing requirements.
That is why we have come forward with the Scottish Parliamentary Standards Commissioner Bill today.
Many of us who went through the Burt inquiry know all about that.
Those bodies must answer that charge of hypocrisy.
I have a point of information.
We need the power to do something to attract more businesses to Scotland.
As Shona Robison said, death is an inescapable part of life.
We also support the living wage and we have made swift progress on that policy.
A bigger critical mass creates entrepreneurial activity to interact with those businesses.
Karen Whitefield was right to mention the work that North Lanarkshire Council is doing.
I call Iain Smith to open the debate for the Liberal Democrats.
Clearly, one needs principle based guidelines with regard to the issue of capital markets.
It would have been affordable and would have represented value for money.
There is no reason why collection could not be as efficient as it currently is.
In theory, she has nine minutes, but we will be flexible with the time.
I am not a pensions expert giving evidence in front of the committee.
I do not see how education is different from social work in that respect.
It would be helpful if Rhona Brankin took some interventions from Opposition members.
Secondly, we must look to expand the role of community based charitable institutions.
I can answer the question a slightly different way, because they already do.
I will comment on the pace of change and procurement efficiencies.
That is what local government has become over the past few years.
There is also some disappointment regarding the timescale.
As long as they are taken forward, that is fine.
The Scottish Government says that it takes climate change and enhancing biodiversity seriously.
It cannot advance changes to legislation or to statutory regulation.
That is what we have been trying to assist with in the legislation so far.
I agree with Mr Henry about that.
As you know, people get grants for that nowadays.
Similarly, a lot is being done to encourage people to be more responsible about recycling.
Your final word, please, Mr Swinney.
There are a lot of data that we require.
I should declare my interest as an occasional consumer of the product in question.
I just wanted to put that interest on the record.
The European Committee will welcome that, because it supported full and active Scottish participation.
All that is balanced against my desire not to open the floodgates.
The previous Executives record is quite shameful.
] I am not really asking you to comment on that.
A number of members referred to the important role that carers play.
That is how the Parliament is funded.
That is no mere inconvenience to people in faraway countries.
Sadly, pensions have not been increased by anything like that amount.
All too often, in politics in general, we get hung up on input measures.
That is the really important question.
The primary interest is to make a profit.
It is what I call the John Bradley syndrome.
I will return to that issue.
It is important to examine both sides of the argument.
The markets price you out when you are already bankrupt.
The SNP will be there to represent the needs of Scotland.
In your report, you seem to dismiss the objective of the redistribution of wealth.
I have two interests  access and road safety for horse riders.
It means that it is hardly worth while doing that.
I endorse everything that Sandra White said in her speech.
As I remember it, there was the Tin Man, the Straw Man and the Lion.
I would like some clarification of how the research co ordinator is to be appointed.
I have just given you it and now you do not want it.
I understand why modelling work proceeds on the basis that Professor Heady described.
The last question is from Margo MacDonald.
That is the direction that we suggested.
We do not have a policy of moving people into the top bands.
They were highly significant in that case.
I welcome Stewart Maxwell to his position.
It will be an interesting debate.
Many people have produced answers to those questions.
I thank Maureen Child for her evidence.
I also thank the clerks to the committee for all their assistance and hard work.
On behalf of the Conservatives, I am pleased to welcome the bill.
Hugh ODonnell spent an awful lot of his time on the first time buyer grant.
Perhaps they had not had leadership at primary school, or they refused to take it.
Bruce Crawford has a supplementary question.
The Scottish Government would have to be ready for extremely tough financial negotiations.
There is a lead time to that.
Sorry, that is a slightly incoherent answer.
That is a successful initiative.
Thank you for those introductory remarks.
That is quite a clear line of accountability.
That is still our position.
Achieving economic growth that is based on inequity and injustice is not sustainable.
No doubt it has many more hours of work to do.
Ninety per cent of income tax comes in through PAYE.
Given that the area has no recent tradition of Gaelic, that is remarkable.
Scottish business is waiting, the projects are waiting and the Parliament is waiting.
Its slogan, Devoted to Life, highlights the positive nature of its work.
They believe that there are strong economic, social and employment cases for the project.
I have already given way to the Conservatives.
He said that devolution would be damaging to his business and that jobs would go.
Therefore, it is not possible for us to itemise that.
God knows how many reviews have been undertaken on the issue, which is fairly simple.
I will comment based on my accountancy background.
The question is where those people are to go.
We know that it will be something but we have no idea what.
As always, however, we must move on to another challenge.
I will let John Mason in, as he has a quick question on that point.
I do not think that the two are connected.
However, things have moved on.
All that demeans and devalues Government agencies and their ability to contribute.
I shall take the latter point first.
The Government wants to stimulate investment in capital assets.
We can come back to that, but Mr Maxwell has been very patient.
It is the right thing to do and it is a spend to save strategy.
Our members regularly have issues with HMRC, so it needs to work better.
That does not apply when land is used as the tax base.
I do not think that we are.
There is little available evidence to demonstrate how many appeals there would be.
No, my point is on the same issue.
I want to take you back to the responses that you gave to Mr Ingram.
It is important to ensure that any fares mechanism is fair and compliant legally.
Those who perpetrate domestic violence deserve the punishment that the courts correctly mete out.
The tragic case of Baby P has been raised by previous speakers.
There is some empirical evidence of fiscal flight, although it is not compelling.
I will bring in Richard Baker.
For business, digital transformation is ever present.
The paper was even forced to print a partial apology.
It would be useful to have those in the basket.
Unfortunately, they concentrated on only a few recommendations.
In our urban green spaces, we still have a strong community of allotment growers.
The COSLA president, Councillor Watters, has covered most of the matter.
We are mindful of the issue of self directed support, too.
I return to the question of revenue borrowing.
It is very unhelpful in branding Scotland.
We gave an undertaking to go away and look constructively at the proposals.
Which paper did you refer to.
Alex Neils leadership speech has come a day late, given John Swinneys announcement this morning.
As a local councillor, I have many years experience in dealing with housing matters.
Demi lost her eldest son Connor to Edwards syndrome twelve years ago.
I therefore close the public part of the meeting.
I have used the example of doctors on a number of occasions.
That is the danger with change.
The aggregates levy does not apply to slate.
I am glad to meet you, Sir Kenneth.
The regulation applies to data controllers and processors.
Perhaps the questions about immediate developments would be best addressed to Highland Council.
As many members have acknowledged, the proposal would have many benefits.
Therefore, the first step is to devolve the powers.
However, I share the desire of most members to reach Aberdeen.
I agree with a number of the points that Fiona Hyslop made.
I will deal first with the amendment in the name of Dr Elaine Murray.
However, the petitioner contends that trains are overcrowded.
There was an opportunity to reform council tax, as I know to my cost.
Will you expand on that a wee bit.
Let me put the debate in context.
That represents a real challenge.
I mentioned the lack of information on adult oral health.
It is not taken for granted.
It has not escaped anyones attention that next year is an election year.
Our paper elaborates on that.
The Liberal Democrat position is totally consistent and has been for many years.
That equates to the number who want to walk.
Only in the context of the bill.
That can be done, and it would have to be done.
On your first point, I will return the question.
We will want to address that in order to reach consensus.
I am very content to have established that critical point.
One of the difficulties with the bill as it stands is there is no backstop.
You are not going to get a definite answer from us.
It is mentioned as an option for people to debate.
Thank you for your interesting paper.
Perhaps flying fish were buzzing over there.
But you choose not to use it.
What about in other respects, more generally.
My colleague John Finnie and I have just returned from a trip to Gaza.
It provided some excellent examples in its briefing.
I am sure that that will play a significant part in Glasgows thinking.
I am happy to accept the point that the minister makes.
That relates to the process of collecting the tax.
It is time that the Scottish National Party started listening to them.
I am sure that we all agree that that would be most welcome.
The authority can go up to a predetermined figure.
We have not done that.
Have you submitted that to the committee.
Will he consider that situation, with a view to increasing the time for repayment.
If, as a society, we seek to be considerably visionary, we should build both links.
National parks help to boost employment in rural communities through sustainable development.
I would use the word effects instead of costs.
You asked whether lowering the duty could be a catalyst for recovery.
They will last a lot longer than us, that is for sure.
Improving child staff ratios has required the council to employ more care home staff.
It does not need to be any more complicated than that.
I do not know the evidence to support it at the moment.
Okay comrades, we can begin.
Today, we have the opportunity to build a new consensus on taxation.
We gave considerable consideration to pensioners.
That goes over the top.
It would be good if you would follow up on that, Mr Swinney.
For example, some people consider electoral reform to be significant constitutional change.
That has a regressive and damaging impact on communities and on society in general.
Looked after children do not need to see such reductions in their life chances.
Of course, debtors sometimes come to the bureau quite late in the process.
I hope that the debate will raise some questions and supply some answers.
Therefore, the costs of the system will come from the block grant.
May we hear his answer, Tommy.
This is a challenging process, which we recognise is challenging for the Scottish Government, too.
I do not think so, but perhaps you can correct me.
In that respect, we are a bit like a one club golfer.
Those people take exception to others who do not pay their bills.
It is always a pleasure to follow a temperate Johann Lamont.
Business is also of vital importance.
We are talking about agreement at the outset, rather than agreement on the outcome.
As in Wales, the language has to become a normal part of the nations life.
Better governance means opening up the debate on Europe to a wider audience.
Those measures must be backed up by the implementation of effective support.
I was happy with the outcome.
I look forward to hearing the ministers speech, which will add to earlier comments.
In the meantime, let us tell businesses the truth.
It is the hardline approach to pursuing those debts that causes the problems.
Is there room in the suggested actions for the consideration of exemptions.
For the high speed trains, Spokes has a good set of solutions.
Hello, everyone, and welcome to the third meeting of the committee.
I do not differ from that view.
You have to set a prudential limit for interest debt.
Yes, and that is even without the currency.
As I say, it is in the computer.
While we wait for the chancellor, Scottish patients are waiting for treatment.
Clearly, under a system of devolution, a lot of power stays at the UK level.
The Scottish Parliament does not raise its own taxation, but its legitimacy is not questioned.
Not here, not now, not at all.
For the Europeans, it is about whether they feel Dutch or European, for example.
However, I would definitely stay in Scotland.
Mr Swinney is in his last minute.
What research did COSLA undertake when drawing up its critique of the current system.
No motion to annul has been lodged.
We are not aware of any such plans.
The people of Mid Calder are obviously enjoying the benefits of that just now.
I think we can have plenty of room for manoeuvre within a currency union.
My second question was what happens if there is no unitary tax.
That has been particularly true since reorganisation.
Coexistence in the marine environment requires communication between all stakeholders.
I want to make the Executives position clear.
However, if capital controls were removed, there would be no need for large scale transfers.
That is the bike that they want to tour round the Highlands and Islands on.
Earlier today, I asked it for feedback from patients on mental health services.
That will be a dynamic effect, which will grow over time.
I am not happy with Des McNultys playing with words.
I commend the general principles of the bill to the Parliament.
] It is in the statement.
Should we be worried about that, or doing something about it.
The long coastline offers great opportunities for water sports, such as kayaking, sailing and canoeing.
I regret that I cannot support Mr Arbuckles motion.
Therefore, our primary concern is not to have that quantum increased.
That applies to the north east as well as to every other part of Scotland.
First, in achieving those aims, we must ensure that there is still rigour.
There are already grace and favour paths that we can go on.
It is not without faults, but it has worked reasonably well.
We see the impact of welfare reform, too, particularly when people lose their benefits.
The third principle is that decisions on local taxation must be, by definition, local.
We recognise the need for action at that spot.
In some ways, we cannot quite get away from that.
However, some other issues that members have raised would be better raised elsewhere.
The context is very important.
It is important to remember that the council tax is a hybrid tax.
If not unethical, it is certainly a very undesirable state of affairs.
However, you go on to propose three preferred alternatives.
She is welcome to sit in and listen to our discussions.
Thank you for your opening remarks and for your brief briefing note.
We can bandy about statistics, but we have to take care.
Do you want to make a quick response, Mr Rennie Nigel Don is getting anxious.
The Executive is going backwards in relation to early intervention.
We have asked him to come back in August to discuss another issue.
In the workplace, people are not given enough time for continuous professional development.
However, there is a clear role for us in setting out expectations in national guidance.
The responsibility of health care providers is to ensure that those services join up.
All those things are heart rending.
Much of the diet is sustainably produced from terrestrial crops.
If the system was more straightforward, it would certainly cause fewer problems.
There is a point of principle somewhere deep down there.
The whole thing is still a mess.
Debt finance is tough for SMEs, so some sort of industry bank would be helpful.
I suppose my question is about how advanced that is.
Members deserve to have their work acknowledged.
A striking example is offender management and crime.
We need to engage with employers and trainers.
I also have some sympathy with the call for a marine national park.
I am glad that the minister acknowledged that.
I will try not to do that.
However, we do not believe that that is a matter for the bill.
That is an interesting idea and one that I will ensure that the Executive addresses.
That was a gracious, consensual gesture on his part, for which I thank him.
Those circumstances do not meet the criteria of the system, do they.
Where would the money come from.
Could members please stop having conversations at the back of the chamber.
It reaches out and helps families with autism.
Therefore, I confirm that our legislation is about substantially enclosed public spaces.
The industry faces enormous obstacles.
Successive Scottish Governments have been nervous about a needs assessment.
It should cover sheriffs, temporary sheriffs and judges.
The same problem applies when the product goes into a pub estate.
More progress must be made as plans are prepared and finalised.
Again, we are sympathetic and want to consult on that.
I will start by making three points.
I do not see why devolution should stop at Holyrood.
There is no direct comparator elsewhere in the world.
Will the member let me back in.
I had certainly not heard about that before.
You are saying that a minister and COSLA have vested interests.
There has been a signal for change.
I have to say that I am concerned by some of your comments.
The debate is about our ambitions for sport in Scotland.
That point also relates to the right to buy.
Will forecasting separately for Scotland and the UK involve a lot of extra work.
I respect the fact that every party in the Parliament has its own agenda.
Can you tell us what the net effect would be.
A number of members referred to self directed support.
Instead, we should do whatever we can to keep them with their family.
I will be interested to see what the effect of the tax will be.
The figures have been chosen as part of an overall assessment of the public finances.
It will have started with the Treasury model.
When we took evidence previously, we had concerns about partner providers.
I have already found that the single agency model is very helpful for my constituents.
What were the other groups that amalgamated.
There can be a failure to implement the solutions when the threat is revealed.
I believe that that common sense, mature attitude will prevail.
Whether that tough policy is producing results is then a matter for revenue Scotland.
Only a couple of weeks ago, we debated the role of carers.
It is effective transition planning and building resilience.
We believe that the council tax is unfair.
Is the answer a few hundred Indeed it is not.
I was not advocating an increase in the business rate at the moment.
It is a juvenile torturing of an answer that I have given.
The issue has nothing to do with nationality.
I am thinking of France and Germany in particular.
Nothing has been ruled out.
I remind everyone to turn off their mobile phones, tablets and other electronic devices.
I have not done a full and detailed study of the economic modelling.
We continue to work very closely on that.
I have spoken here in the past about Rosewell house and Smithfield court in Aberdeen.
Actually, we said merely that that should be considered.
The SNP motion talks about a real terms freeze.
The other submissions to the committee include some interesting suggestions.
The committee is interested in local government.
That is how the calculation is devised.
If we were to roll out a longer term programme, that would require legislation.
There is a need for political and policy leadership to move the trust model forward.
Do you have an idea when those will be available to the Parliament.
We must get individuals, communities and businesses to buy into and invest in the measures.
So much for claims of SNP financial prudence.
I heard Jackson Carlaw on the radio.
The first relates directly to education.
That is the clear demand from the public throughout Scotland.
It is interesting to reflect on how quickly the debate has moved on.
I do not think that I do.
But it clearly does not take into account tax motivated incorporation and profit shifting.
It highlights the fact that access to dental services is a problem throughout the country.
I suspect that she does not think that now.
On the face of it, that sounds like a positive measure.
I hope that that teases out a little of what is behind that sentence.
We wanted to encourage discussions on the issue between the two Governments.
We must change or face being overwhelmed by the situation.
I am sorry to have to return to an issue that I have raised before.
When it arrives, we will deal with both petitions together, which only makes good sense.
Minister, I can give you only six minutes.
In the report, you say that you considered propensity to work.
All the previous programmes that I have run were perfectly successful.
We require to monitor prisoners and safeguard their rights.
We had to ask for my sister in law to be reassessed by a doctor.
We could not just say, Have it.
It is difficult for me to make specific suggestions.
The consultants final report is expected in the autumn.
It depends what else happens to the tax base.
We must put an end to cost shunting between the NHS and local authorities.
It was pooh poohed but, despite that, their views have now been supported.
An educational visits scheme is operated by Historic Scotland.
All those factors are important.
May awoke one morning on a bench on Arthurs Seat, surrounded by sheep.
The Local Government Committee became sidelined into discussing restructuring of council tax bands.
Perhaps we would get somewhere if he stopped muttering and started listening.
I am aware of that.
That is one issue that we would want to consider.
You highlighted all the problems that older people face.
The other bit is risk.
James Kelly will open the questioning.
Quite properly, Keith Harding described how that process can be reversed.
That proves that Tommy does not care about the poor in this country.
I want us to do much more to achieve that.
I understand the views of both councils on the existing formula.
Could you bring your remarks to a close.
I turn to the issue of rural FE colleges.
That is how I see the situation.
Can the cabinet secretary be precise When will we have that clarity.
A reasonable projection should be made and then adjusted.
Mr Feynman was a joker and a mischief.
I welcome this opportunity to debate housing policy.
You want fundamental growth, good human capital and good physical infrastructure.
Obviously, police cells are fundamentally a matter for the chief constable and the police board.
That is very much part of the debate.
It is increasingly recognised that good governance is about bringing decision making closer to citizens.
I am intrigued by your comments on local income tax.
I welcome the debate, which must continue.
No, we are happy to answer questions on the supplementary financial memorandum.
Perhaps she might want to engage in that conversation.
That is important for long term responsibility.
The debate has been useful.
I thank the cabinet secretary for that answer.
I disagree with your point about high immigration.
We would love to completely unscramble the issues, but we cannot do so.
In that sense, housing would be close to the top of my list of priorities.
I reassure Elaine Murray that I remain entirely my own man.
The responsible bodies should work that out through consultation.
It was convenient for the SNP then, but it is inconvenient for the SNP today.
This is a slightly off the cuff question.
Alcohol is one that has been mentioned.
Terms such as they and us do not help the process.
I am not sure that it would work.
We are not asking people to make sudden changes.
As a Glasgow MSP, I am pushing Glasgows case.
Two thousand and seven is not six or seven years ago.
First, members have explained the many benefits of locally grown food.
Organisations and parties are talking and negotiating a lot.
We need a little more light and a little less heat.
What is your view of the impact of the SRIT.
The Labour controlled Local Government Committee has the job of dishing out the castor oil.
We also take housing issues into account.
We must keep that fact in mind.
Living in the north east allows me to indulge in both.
We have made progress, which I welcome and am proud of.
First, let me deal with the process of independence.
Corporation tax and VAT will never be devolved to Scotland.
Beyond that, considerable administration costs would obviously arise.
We also want the shellfish industry and the wild fisheries to be sustainable.
We are challenging the industry to optimise existing sites.
If questioned on that claim, I will try to justify it.
Does your council recognise nervousness about what has happened.
That gives us some difficulty.
One of the cast members made a very good speech before the performance.
It is difficult enough to achieve good governance in Scotland and the UK.
More than that, I want the whole public sector to follow that example.
Change might happen whether or not there is constitutional change.
Where will the SNP get the money and how much will it be.
That does not add up.
Those are simple measures that all users can and should take.
That is called basic democracy.
Jamie Stone made a valid point about the teaching of modern languages.
In local government, everybody has a tax power, but the Parliament is not like that.
One issue is flexibility in the workplace.
The SNP fully supports the outreach centre in Aberdeen, which gained cross party support.
Can you expand on that statement.
It is a cash limited fund.
Scotland is a wet country.
Today is an historic day.
The standard procedure for dealing with negative instruments applies.
A separate vote will be called for each candidate.
I welcome you to the committee, Dr Gibson.
We have heard a lot about tax coming down.
Healthy peatlands act as a sink for greenhouse gases.
If Parliament wanted to change that position, additional legislation would be needed.
We must recognise that there has been much progress.
That means that there is a bias in favour of raising rather than lowering taxes.
We should expect that reaction as something that is normal.
That is the perfect storm about which we are worried.
That is important and must be raised time and again.
I hope that the minister will be able to respond to my comments.
As far as I can see, however, it did not.
However, it is clear from SNP policy that we will support referenda on constitutional issues.
If we need to ask you for further evidence, we will certainly do so.
That is what you get for not giving us a précis of your submission.
I will make a little progress, if I may.
New institutions have been developed to reflect the regional diversity that exists throughout Europe.
Do you agree that that could be avoided with a yes vote.
That goes to the root of non expenditure based GAEs.
She did not say that.
We must be careful not to stray into the remit of another committee.
The balance has shifted away from revenue that is raised from land rents locally.
Jim Mather raised a number of important issues.
We now have regular revaluations for UBR and potentially for council tax.
The setting of the business rate is clearly a separate issue.
I am trying to avoid a trap here.
However, that does not prevent us from doing more on those issues in the future.
Unfortunately, Keith Harding added to that scaremongering today.
Rob Gibson mentioned anti competitive reasons.
No, I wish to make progress.
I appreciate your remarks about the business rate.
You have given us food for thought.
The development of a strategic view would be part of the research co ordinators role.
There is nothing better than food that is grown not just locally, but by oneself.
As a UK Government, we are supportive of the Irish and where they are.
We have had campaigns against barristers in London.
That would be good news for accountants.
I make that point seriously, against the background of the Governments accountability.
Therefore, we cannot afford to provide all the services that we want to provide.
That seems to be an issue that we should address, especially for looked after children.
Our position on that is clear.
It is important that you understand the basis on which you are before the committee.
Again, that was human error.
We all remember that commitment, which was to match our promise brick for brick.
That would be disadvantageous to both sides.
A copy of the amending regulations has been circulated for information.
And no one ever corrects that logic.
Young people talk about their frustration with the system.
No decision has yet been made on timing.
I will put that in broad context.
The standard among them is considerably worse than among other children.
It takes account of council tax benefit and any other benefits that households receive.
The commission completed its work about two years ago.
We should say, This is the Scottish take on the global solution.
That is also true of national election turnouts.
Mr Barroso has said that a new state would have to apply.
He was shaking his head, but he was not disagreeing.
If they do not, surely the writer should be sacked.
There are issues that we need to consider carefully around social work and care services.
Its use involves accounting conventions.
I welcome the overall thrust of the ministers statement.
The arrangement has been made by the two operators.
When previous Administrations were in power, the council tax went through the roof.
However, older people want change and a fairer system now.
We have run a little over time, but the session has been useful.
Regression analysis calculates average spending rather than what is a standard service.
We are also pro debate.
That is the case in Denmark.
Angela Scott raised the matter, but anybody can answer my questions.
There should be more promotion, showcasing and export effort.
I think that the prepayment issue is respected, understood and appreciated.
The research is extremely thorough.
Secondly, there is not much interest in the revenue side of the budget.
Let us consider the Scottish labour market performance.
I can easily clarify that misconception.
I am in my second last minute and I have a lot more to say.
They travel elsewhere in Scotland, which stresses the citys gateway status.
David Davidson outlined the Conservative position in support of council tax.
That is not a legitimate way of doing it.
That proposal sounds absolutely ideal, although it would need to be underwritten by some rules.
If that growth is to be sustained, effective surface access links will be required.
We see a changing picture of those who are becoming GPs.
I also read out the quotes from the Auditor General about the trams project.
All of us want to thank him for the hard work that he has done.
You list the Accounts Commission as doing some work on school education.
Historically, have we generally been reducing landfill.
I appreciate that comment from the minister.
We have not finished the research into that area, which will take another year.
We had to do a couple of things.
That is the very simple amendment that we are talking about, convener.
I welcome the members of our next panel and thank them for coming along.
I did not quite catch the contradiction that James Kelly suggested on fiscal drag.
This morning, we had an interesting debate about looked after children.
We need only go back to the time of Ronald Reagan in the United States.
I have some sympathy with that aspect.
As far as the industry is concerned, there would be what we call compliance costs.
You say that we might be able to do things better or differently.
Is COSLA looking at not for profit trusts.
We have made much progress and we have much progress to look forward to.
Do you recognise that as a problem.
However, they will not be widely applauded by the party that claims to represent business.
However, there are areas in which the choices are quite difficult.
That was an interesting set of questions.
The recommendations in the report are a step in the right direction.
Indeed, that is why I judged the question to be relevant.
I very much agree with the other two members of the panel.
In particular, we would like to know the monetary value of any such investment.
Our full understanding is that that is the case.
Clearly, Ian McKee has an important contribution to make, too.
I agree with Mr Swinney on that point.
That may seem contraindicative, but it is an important aspect.
Shellfish farming has particularly huge potential to expand in the Highlands and Islands.
That was done in England, where one period per week of citizenship education was introduced.
If we have not, where should the balance be.
So it does not come specifically from property tax.
The point is that, without those basic facts, there is no counterbalance.
Some hard questions need to be asked.
Policy decisions on spending will also stimulate growth, if that is the choice.
I would rather it said altered instead of lengthened.
That will remove any allegations that there are favoured and neglected areas.
In fact, I would like constraints to be placed on some central Government taxes.
As Drew Edward said, one size does not fit all.
We wonder whether the infrastructure plan will be delivered.
The bill is patently and fundamentally flawed.
I am asking about the Edinburgh trams project today.
The appointment will be made as a result of an open recruitment process.
We have heard many interesting points today.
Things have moved on in some respects.
I am not really convinced by that argument.
I am sure that everyone here welcomes efficiency in local government.
I saw a poster that said, Put our pensions at risk No thanks.
Revenue neutrality is the objective.
To date, we have co operated very well on a range of issues.
As they have a lower cost base, the work is economical for them.
I am always struck by the fact that schools focus on team games.
Are you saying absolutely not to any of that.
Many other points have been made today, one of which concerned capital finance.
In a sense, it is just how the numbers fall out.
I have another question for Claire Menzies Smith.
We get a share of UK revenue through the block grant.
The consultation ends in January and the regulations will be laid before Parliament shortly thereafter.
I am not questioning your credentials.
Change will become a much more fraught issue.
Indeed, I have spoken to him again within the past hour.
In that spirit, the industry is interested in exploring the new area of integrated aquaculture.
I will make one more point before handing over to the deputy convener.
You talked about the transitional period.
That is probably true of many taxes.
I welcome that action plan.
Liam McArthur talked about cyber crime.
Her letter says Turning to the issue of compensation for mis sold pensions.
Thank you for that brief statement.
The question on the motions will be put at decision time.
Their prices will presumably have to go up.
I think that that is what he said.
We do not propose a fundamental shift in how money is brought into local government.
The Sleat peninsula in Skye provides an example.
We have had a robust but, I think, respectful evidence session.
The topic is extremely important.
That is what you are looking for.
We want donor numbers in Scotland to double.
That is hardly the point.
On the other hand, there might be inflexibility around finance.
What does the bank say It says We have not entered a dialogue.
We welcome the committees inquiry.
I understand that the panel members have waived their right to make introductory remarks.
I am sure that the objective is to achieve a simple tax regime.
In fact, the situation has been the reverse.
That was part of the discussion.
Can you set out the thinking behind that.
I share some of the views that Jimmy Andrews and George Black set out.
By definition, when someone gets to an appeals tribunal, they have reached an important stage.
We are dealing with individual sites that might each have a seven figure liability.
I also shall be brief.
As the figures show, nothing could be further from the truth.
The Executive needs local government to deliver its priorities.
Some members have mentioned that.
As the old adage says, people start to value what they measure.
My third point is about the children's hearings system.
Public procurement is a powerful tool in ensuring sustainability.
We want our efforts to inspire others.
It gives some incentives but not full incentives.
That is correct, is it not.
Allegedly, it took a political decision about whether to recommend sanctions.
We have a UK deficit and a Scottish deficit.
That is common among auditors.
Such a change could be revenue neutral, but it would not need to be.
Most of them are integrated, complex businesses that operate across the UK.
I have a couple of questions.
However, that could be remedied by an act of Parliament, if Parliament had the will.
I have engaged on the subject with the trade unions, whose representatives I met recently.
That was why we established the Scottish centre for healthy working lives.
We cannot afford to play pass the parcel any longer.
Maybe I am blinded by the numbers.
We need one overall body that is given some sort of punch through legislation.
Scotlands farmers and fishermen work to the highest standards of quality and sustainability.
That is none of my business.
I am trying to establish whether it is primary or secondary evidence.
There are two fundamental problems with such an ill thought out approach.
The reality is not like that.
Instead, we are discussing concerns about uncontrolled and apparently unaccountable police stop and search tactics.
Those people have been caught and the Inland Revenue is chasing them for back tax.
Nothing can be considered in isolation and resolving such issues takes time.
A current issue is the level of non domestic rates and of utilities charges.
It will help to transport vital whisky exports on their journeys to China and elsewhere.
I commend him for raising that point.
That is what has been said at Westminster and here.
Individuals are writing to us.
It would just not be worth your while to have such a report.
SSP members are the people who said, Dont pay your taxes.
It is for the Government to decide what measures to take in that regard.
We have to be armed with the facts on how Scotland will be affected.
The themes of the committees consultation paper do not necessarily emphasise skills so much.
As I said, I mean three to five years.
Moving on, I have a simple question on the income tax proposals.
To that extent, I am happy to support the report.
I think that I am right in saying that there are different bands in Scotland.
A range of issues will come forward to us through the House of Lords.
That allows people to practise speaking Gaelic.
Our partnership is with the UK Government.
However, I will not prejudge the possibility of such a plan being developed.
We have heard that the numbers are too high.
There was an interim report, a report by financial experts and a final report.
It is important that we recognise that Glasgow airport has gone from strength to strength.
There is a broad range of views in the Poverty Alliance.
I am surprised that Mike Russell took so long to make that point.
Fergus Ewing talked about people who are property rich but income poor.
I hope that Glasgow members will allow me a brief word on this subject.
I believe that all members understand and recognise the need for action.
If powers have been granted to regions or nations, Brussels must recognise them.
Companies in the industry have innovated and invested and are succeeding as a result.
One might ask why, in that case, it is abolishing charges so freely.
I do not want to comment on that.
The first is that the person is domiciled in Scotland.
That was an interesting insight into some issues that have been raised by the petitioners.
That is not the tax take, but the consequences of the tax take.
That was unimaginable a few years ago.
Those issues would be emphasised significantly if local income tax was variable across Scotland.
Another case has arisen this week.
They are an important asset.
He may shake his hands, but disabled people and people with impairments are important.
I do not have my computer here.
The SNP wants a council tax freeze instead.
To hope to make local government finance interesting is to dream the impossible dream.
I am the principal of the University of Glasgow.
Each person with autism has different needs and barriers to overcome.
I am pleased to have the opportunity to contribute to this mornings debate.
Because the evidence is quite strong.
Therefore, corporation tax would be best set within a range of taxes.
There must be logic in the way in which the incentives are applied.
That is the fundamental difference between our approach and the Conservative approach.
John Swinney acknowledged that work.
These are important areas on which to move forward.
Other people wish to contribute.
I thank members for their questions, too.
That is why I want to make a short contribution to tonights debate.
I can tell members about the bills potential economic impact.
For employment and unemployment, we use measurements that are recognised by the International Labour Organisation.
Has your current business looked at moving.
I stand corrected on the number of pages.
You make some general criticisms of pensions.
In the public sector, the problems are even more manifest.
In principle, grouping projects together tends to spread the risk out a wee bit more.
They are about things such as disability, a need to care or bereavement.
Perhaps you will address the motion next time.
It is possible to mix and match across various projects.
Could consideration be given to a specific campaign to raise awareness of ovarian cancer.
Collaboration is as important as what is written in the bill.
Such investment has a huge impact on corporation tax receipts.
Those structures are for devolution, not independence, and they vary enormously.
On the whole, people get such predictions wrong.
I wish that would happen.
I remember it from my days at university, as it were.
So you have a phased programme.
However, we are aware that the problem is a serious one indeed.
We need to remain vigilant about that.
That is how the chart works out.
He is ill and Alex McLuckie has stepped in at short notice.
I turn the ministers attention to retail sales of food.
I will concentrate my remarks on Gaelic medium education.
They fit very well with the views of the Education Committee.
I think that we are all in the same place.
However, there are other aspects.
The amendments in the names of David Davidson, Mark Ballard and Tommy Sheridan therefore fall.
Jamie McGrigor talked about food and tourism.
I have a final point on the question of reliance on other things.
It would also bring much clearer accountability.
I am not sure how that translates in that table, though.
One of the extra costs is for the introduction of tribunals.
Stop and search is a clear example of when action is required.
This has been a constructive debate.
Whoever controls that formula controls precisely how much each local authority receives.
In one sense, that was a technical issue.
The changes will kick in in just over two years.
Scotland is growing out of the old ways in which things have habitually been done.
Ben Wallace was right to highlight the secrecy that surrounds much of this issue.
I am aware, too, that not all local authorities have their own money advice service.
Two thousand years ago, slaves had their heads shaved.
I have absolutely answered the ministers question.
The consequences of that for Scotland would be quite painful.
The predecessor Scotland Bill Committee agreed with that.
The enhanced security measures are part of how we aim to do that.
There needs to be a system whereby officers are able to provide their input.
Mr Shields, if you do not mind, you should try to answer the question.
Not one goes from north west to south east, so there is an effect.
Things never stand still in this game.
You are anticipating my next question.
No, you are twisting my words.
I have worked it out for band B as well, as a comparator.
Were not going to squabble about that.
That statement helped because people thought that another referendum was not around the corner.
Local authorities are not short of statutory obligations and guidance.
As long as people have Freeview, they will get the Gaelic programmes.
In many ways, it is presented somewhat more smoothly.
Making the system more complex at this stage in the process would create difficulty.
Will the minister give way.
The Deputy First Minister will take questions at the end of her statement.
No one would deny that scope exists to increase fin fish and shellfish production.
Mr Gallies petition is worthy of support.
Members asked what I am doing.
However, there are significant variations.
That is, perhaps they would pull out of Scotland altogether.
Thank you for that question.
I do not disagree with you, but I do not see the problem with that.
It will be a commodity that will be very much in demand.
In what way has the system been used and abused.
The term home rule has been mentioned.
Gandhi tells his people to lie on the road.
A lot of the transport investment goes through Transport Scotland.
In the case of Ireland, that is a very low rate of corporation tax.
We would be interested in considering equivalents in other areas of work.
You acknowledge that there has been massive underinvestment in local government for many years.
The transaction tax that you are going to have is a considerable improvement.
They will strengthen devolution in Scotland.
You raise the issue of fiscal flight.
This is an important debate.
That is a significant issue in environmental terms and in terms of criminal activity.
We should examine local government services and decide whether education is truly a local service.
Either he did not understand it, or he was trying to sabotage it.
I will, of course, discuss the local income tax with them.
First, I back up what he said.
I, too, am sorry to hear of the First Ministers indisposition.
I do not want us to go too far into the council tax review.
The burden of taxation is shifting towards indirect taxes such as VAT.
I, too, am not surprised that the submissions begin with the difficulties.
I know the background to the McLeish affair.
David Davidson gave us the welcome benefit of his experience.
However, the centre is due to close next month as a result of funding problems.
That does not mean that we will check every bit of it.
Are you saying that that will be factored in.
You say in your evidence that you are concerned about the cost of PPP schemes.
We expect that local authorities accessibility strategies will form part of their improvement plans.
Councils could then be given more control over their local resources.
There is no lack of willingness.
I hope that the committee and the Government will bear that in mind.
I will cite a couple of actions that we are taking.
I have been referred to.
I recognise that as a fact and I welcome it as such.
It talks a good game, but it is not prepared to pay, which is unacceptable.
That has been a way of taking out some of the frustration.
Angela Roger said that personal growth should be at the heart of the education system.
I ask the minister to let me finish making my point.
Local authorities financial problems are much more long term.
I take it that those questions are for Angela Scott.
What is the current situation.
Ms White mentioned the egalitarian and international traditions of the university.
I agree entirely with Jackie Baillie.
We must also explore how to support those families in a non patronising way.
Thank you for coming to see us again, Mr Moore.
I am very pleased about the progress that has been made on the bridge.
The corporation tax is also a lever for growth.
I would just like to ask a question.
That is particularly true in the health service.
There are two reasons for that.
Reference has been made to the image of salmon farming, which is improving considerably.
The next item of business is a debate on the infrastructure investment plan.
However, local councillors will not be able to take part in the planning application.
That plan would be welcomed by the people of Scotland.
It is not, as has sometimes been argued, cost free.
Therefore, you decided not to undertake such a review.
If you are indexed to that tax base, you might be put at a disadvantage.
We originally applied for additional borrowing consent for that.
It comes back to the question of what information you want.
The bill has provided a good example of how legislation can progress.
That is simply not good enough.
The real gap that we should discuss is the credibility gap in the SNPs promises.
Effective local democracy requires it.
I will bring in Margaret McDougall.
The responses obviously have to be checked for defamation.
Pubs must cover overheads, which means that prices are much higher.
That is a good point, and one that I tried to address earlier.
The traceability of escaped fish is a further issue.
John Farquhar Munro speaks Gaelic extremely well.
Once the European legislation is clear, there will be an opportunity to consider devolving it.
If we can get well drafted legislation, there is less wriggle room.
I will allow a two minute suspension before we take the third panel of witnesses.
To refer to an earlier argument, there is a difference between growth and a level.
The minister mentioned fiscal flight.
You have to remember to switch them on.
We should instead concentrate on delivering the public services that we all need.
However, I cannot tell you off the top of my head.
It is entirely proper that this scrutiny committee picks that up and makes that point.
I have just come back from Germany.
It is very important that we do not forget about attitudes.
Can I hear from Michael Clancy, please.
There is no massive change to anything that you should be worried about relying on.
We should be looking to get to an analogous situation in Scotland.
The report will be finalised with the amendments that we have agreed today.
The project will take a long time.
However, doing that will create a level of growth.
However, we are not here today to advocate any particular form of local income tax.
Education will be a vital part of the preservation and promotion of Gaelic.
Can you say more about that.
The term corporate parent can be controversial.
Hugh Henry touched on the key issue of the ability to influence change.
Our strategic ambition is to grow the inbound potential at Glasgow.
That would allow SMEs to accommodate the additional costs of being located in Scotland.
That upsets me, but there we are.
I appreciate the written submission that you sent us.
We must be actively engaged in the development and enlargement of the EU.
Tax sharing extends to corporation tax, general sales tax, VAT and so on.
If necessary, I can make a formal proposal that we can vote on.
There is no better way of raising a child.
Food security is also becoming increasingly important.
I am talking about whisky.
Is that what you are saying.
I must take off my glasses.
We are failing to apply the stitch in time philosophy.
As the bill makes clear, its provisions should be restricted to serious allegations of misconduct.
I know that many communities in Scotland would benefit from that.
I want to know from ministers how much that will cost.
Again, the issue is extremely complicated.
The Government has put in place a supposedly historic concordat of which it is proud.
There post offices provide a wider service and are at the heart of communities.
The issue relating to Scottish football is interesting and significant.
That is an example of where people would want convenience.
The committee is concerned to provide sustainable transport, rather than just more space for cars.
I will keep my explanation brief because the committee already has a paper from me.
As I said, I will reflect on the point.
At the top end, silly money has been paid for some houses.
As I indicated, the Executive wants this debate on Europe to take place.
We must get away from the idea that cheap is best.
I find that passing strange.
I think that Ted Brocklebank covered that.
The Scottish Executive would take a view on a national rate.
I am quite happy to go through them one by one.
We will give the First Minister a chance to do some arithmetic of his own.
The taxable surplus is the rent, no matter how it is disguised by different mechanisms.
No checks carried out on what.
If we want to make an impact, faith, ideology and action are inseparable.
This has been an interesting debate and, by and large, consensual.
I did not agree to take that intervention, but I will respond to it.
Your last comment about the pull of London is quite intriguing.
I did not ask how you operate.
It is coming from nowhere.
We feel that the recommendations that we arrived at strike that balance.
I am pleased that we are finally to see the action plan, albeit belatedly.
We need to confront that.
The dental outreach programme will be hugely important for Scotlands more rural areas.
Will that differ from council area to council area.
Yes, we accept that there would have to be some fiscal sustainability agreements.
It is fairly clear that that was dependent on a number of factors.
I look forward to the ministers reply on that.
It is long term stability, suitable home backgrounds and links with birth families.
Let us have it exactly, just so that members remember it.
You seem to separate the interests of consumers and businesses.
Overseas students are an important income stream for our universities now.
It put forward its income tax proposals specifically to try to meet those objectives.
It is essential that a decision be taken.
It is an academic piece of work.
I went back to my desk and prepared to write my speech.
The committee has been equally robust with contributors from all sides.
That is what tax freedom is good for.
Tommy Sheridan can have a brief final question.
We have been urging that work to prepare for implementation to begin now.
That in itself will help to embed that practice across local authorities.
I am delighted to close on the Green amendment.
It is unprecedented to have two Governments meeting to discuss tax issues.
We would be lumped with the interest.
That can only benefit the whole of Scotland.
His amendments go far deeper than just the issue of Gaelic.
We will then discuss that under the second theme.
I wondered what that reward would be.
Its display really was sad and pathetic.
Boards are now required to collect and use information about availability of dental services.
Minister, let me sum up the evidence that we have heard today.
Glasgow continues to be the cinderella airport that is disregarded.
Like others, I am pleased to have the opportunity to take part in the debate.
We have also already given NHS boards the authority to appoint directly salaried dentists.
The problem is that all the effects that I discussed operate on the margin.
We pointed that out to the commission from the start.
I will come back to some of the generalities of the Calman commission.
The point is about how we have a much fairer society in Scotland.
First, the European Commission, however important, is not the final arbiter of these matters.
Scotland would benefit from that.
I think that those were the principles on which Adam Smith founded modern day economics.
Let us examine the state of housing in Scotland.
You are talking about lawyers, but your petition is about the judiciary.
What is right for one is not always right for another.
It may well be impossible.
This is one of the areas of the welfare reforms that disturbs me the most.
Coming from a Liberal Democrat, that surprise question really poses me enormous difficulties.
That number is growing and we intend to grow it further.
I agree with George MacBride.
This is a welcome debate on the problems that NHS dentistry in Scotland faces.
It is clear that new or modified governance arrangements will be required.
The block grant adjustment is not the only remaining issue to be settled.
That seems awfully cumbersome and disproportionate.
Our essential criticism of the current council tax was that it is not progressive.
As other members have done, I will diverge from Tommy Sheridan at that point.
We do not know what policies will be discussed at the Council of Ministers meetings.
The order will partly implement those important transition arrangements.
The committees view was that the next IGC must tackle the treaties.
Action will also be required from a wide range of other organisations.
Significant advances have been made in streamlining the aquaculture regulatory burden.
Devo more is a programme rather than a simple, one shot arrangement.
I will discuss those with colleagues if I am elected.
 I do not think that that is a very strong argument.
We are looking for a more streamlined build, into which our ROS systems will integrate.
Is that just my perception from looking visually at the graph.
You have gone for the traditional, easy opening question.
Those figures are well below the national averages.
That brings me on to the efficiency savings.
The issue brings us back to immigration policy.
No, not at the moment.
In many ways, aquaculture might have become one of Scotlands forgotten industries.
Land value taxation is the subject of our witness to the committee today.
What if something was done on the excise side.
Nobody else saw it before that time.
We know what we are doing.
If we can do the same in Scotland, I for one will be happy.
That is the key issue.
Obviously, one does not want to adjust spending sharply downwards during a big recession.
We must allow local authorities flexibility.
It is a long distance walking path that runs from Wiltshire up into Buckinghamshire.
I share the reservations that were expressed earlier about the effect on poorer families.
That said, I would not rule out corporation tax devolution within a certain framework.
I do not want to anticipate that.
That is just one example.
Prepayments are the only area on which there has been any material movement.
The Government will endeavour to take specific steps to assist the process.
Mr Swinney was the one who was carrying on.
Yes, that would be my position.
My proposals in relation to equal respect were accepted by the Education Committee.
Can he give me some more details on that.
Scottish ministers must be accountable for their actions.
But I turned the question back towards the bill, convener.
There were two sets of losers in that case.
In that case, the public do not know who is responsible or accountable.
It is really hard to make a ready claim to that.
I think that the answer is yes.
A more concrete commitment to delivering those facilities is required.
It talks about equal pay, but it does not deliver the money.
and greater scope for impartial intervention and review of decisions about the formula.
They are not hugely anxious.
Discussions are taking place on this issue at the moment.
The land registry system in Scotland is very efficient.
Indeed, the First Minister said that it had been duped by anti independence people.
Both those options should be explored to find out which gives the better balance.
It is clearly designed to provide an additional tool in relation to criminal activity.
It is time for the Government to put up or shut up.
My question goes with the flow of current questioning.
Edinburgh airport is active during the night for cargo, but there are few passenger movements.
Circulation of the consultation was wide.
Indeed, there was a contingency in the figures.
It would be difficult to find one example that represented the majority of households.
We were doing it very quietly.
First and foremost, it could make our farmers more vulnerable in the long term.
I have put those issues into several different categories.
See, Jean, if only you had the mind of Ernst Stavro Blofeld.
That is something that all parties in the chamber should celebrate.
I was struck by what your submission says about the World Economic Forum.
Am I correct in suggesting that the two are not comparable.
A tourist tax may change it in a way that we would not want.
That is a reflection of where we have got to.
In the UK, the amount of money raised locally is part of that capacity.
We need to understand what all the costs would be.
We have not looked at the impact of changing spending patterns of the well off.
Those concerns come from my experience of dealing with environmental matters in the Parliament.
That is the future hope for the language.
Our healthcare quality strategy underpins our commitment to delivering the highest quality healthcare services.
There have been only two positives in four years.
As I explained at our meeting, the bank is committed to impartiality in that debate.
It is also relevant to look at where the spending levels per head have been.
It does not have to.
Small businesses are a large part of the economy in Scotland.
Everybody is happy to move on.
I will provide another example.
It is the case that current eligibility is increasingly determined by the severity of need.
We now need to do several other things.
Those sort of changes are possible.
I also submitted the petition to raise awareness.
We have talked to a lot of community organisations and stakeholders.
Tackling poverty is high on the political agenda, and rightly so.
Clarity would help us to answer some of the questions.
We will just have to agree to have different viewpoints.
That ceases to be an issue once the first national plan has been approved.
The data were there, just under the surface, and have been considered a great deal.
I think that the first cohort is due later this year.
I am not sure that I follow the logic of that argument.
Should we get details about that after it has happened.
Leaders can easily be tempted to enact policies that are easy rather than right.
By contrast, removing any form of property tax would be an inflationary measure.
I am confident that they will deliver, so I am not overly concerned.
The first line of our submission states The UK tax system is regressive.
It is an emotive subject.
That mission is the Governments job.
Nothing can be worse than not having a home at all.
We should mention that to show what can happen with refugees and asylum seekers.
I am happy to support many of the measures that the minister outlined.
The Executive should trust itself.
I am sure that you share that concern, convener.
High rates of house price inflation limit labour mobility and reduce our economys competitiveness.
French duty rates are considerably lower than those in the UK.
The member raises an important point.
Is it time to consider distributing the randomness over more than a single weeks selection.
On that basis, should the reduction be small.
Some of the matters for which we use reserves are one off issues.
You said, rightly, that working out the Scottish numbers requires a lot of work.
We will then see where it goes in terms of future legislation.
However, that is only a personal reflection.
Of course, that means that your share will increase.
The immediate benefits of the bill should not be underestimated.
That is reasonable territory on which we can correspond with the Executive.
That is not what I said.
I would like to say something precisely on that point.
I am afraid that I have not read it.
I always visualise it as a graph.
Without some modelling, I cannot tell how the two effects will balance out.
A covering note is attached.
However, the Scottish people are not in denial.
The Government has politically supported a number of onshore wind farms.
It is for the UK to take that into account, not the Scottish Parliament.
However, it will also be necessary to tighten up regulations.
Both the committees report and the commissioners findings will be published in full.
There are too many conversations going on.
Members will therefore expect me to say that demographics have to be recognised.
Decisions should be taken at the most appropriate level.
We needed to ensure that we got value for money.
That is the first point that I made in my submission.
If escapes take place, we want to know where and why they happened.
I am not a minister, but I will certainly give way.
With the greatest respect, I ask that members address one another through the chair.
I do not think that anyone has got to the bottom of the figures.
Indeed, we should set an example by having a Cabinet of champions.
I am aware that Mr Browne has sat patiently between Dr Gillan and Mr Evans.
We have such difficulties in many areas of preventative spend.
The removal of ring fencing gives local government some flexibility, as do its prudential powers.
I think that that is called murmuring a judge.
That is the broad timescale that we are now working to.
I am glad to see you moving more and more in my direction.
That is the bottom line for any decisions that we take.
There is a lot in what you say.
Professor Trench, do you want to comment.
The point to remember is that we can always revisit the issue.
The report also complements our major consultation on modernising NHS dental services in Scotland.
As Karen Whitefield and Margaret Smith said, those areas require considerable attention.
Handout is not necessarily an appropriate term.
Every entrepreneur can be hounded out of Scotland and he does not care.
Mr McDonald has given us a good example.
The SNP needs to raise its game a bit.
We have a democratic system.
I will ask the First Minister a question that he might find a little easier.
The message that came from the reports was that change was possible.
We will have less power than we have at present.
Development in that area in recent years has been a revelation to me.
I will say one more thing.
If members wait, they will get what they want.
Not long ago, we all celebrated the fantastic victory of the Scotland team over France.
The problems that we have inherited require a radical solution.
I return to my opening point.
I have an objection from Stewart Stevenson, so there will be speeches.
My final point relates to the reduction of food miles in the tourism industry.
There were at least two questions there.
The UK has a problem with its historical legacy.
If the situation changes, I will let the committee know.
Subsidiarity should be Europes guiding principle rather than some airy fairy academic concept.
I want to make a serious point.
Modestly, we Conservatives do not claim a monopoly of good ideas in this Parliament.
People make decisions about where they live based on a range of factors.
It is a fixed amount.
It lists several points on which it seeks clarification.
As the motion emphasised, clinical and care professional leadership is fundamental.
I want to try to draw the discussion together.
I regard that as an example of fiscal mismanagement, along with council tax revaluation.
I may go away and come back.
Why is the tax system regressive Because of indirect taxes.
His tax is a central tax, which would remove discretion from local authorities.
I had not intended to speak at any length about the submission.
That places Scotland second in the United Kingdom, behind the south east of England.
I see what you mean.
In Edinburgh, and indeed in Glasgow, passengers arrive on the latest jets.
I ask the same question of Penelope Warne.
What are your views on that.
I would need some time to answer that question properly.
That is the critical issue.
That was a view that we put forward at the time.
John Swinney put forward detailed, thorough proposals on a local income tax.
From what members have said, that is a minority view.
We will work to achieve that.
Are there further issues that members want to raise.
In fact, the member of staff in question feels that she was misinterpreted.
That kind of rigour is important.
Pauline McNeill asked about our strategic priorities.
I thank the minister for that clarification.
It is the gift of God, who is the ultimate authority in this world.
That is not the case with business rates income in Scotland.
Nobody has brought forward that proposal to me.
That said, I come to my question.
If it is not, the childs life could be in danger.
If we cannot provide those margins of uncertainty, we cannot address the question.
We are beginning to see some outcomes in that area, which we will evaluate.
We will use the evidence from the camera.
I think that the majority of members are strong supporters of that bill.
That seems absolutely crazy to me.
I assume that the UK Treasury would lead on that.
I hope that the cabinet secretary will address that point in his closing remarks.
We should not worry about any overlap between consultations.
That is why tackling the issue is my top priority.
The easy answer is no  there is no single view.
Those are some of the questions that we have been asking.
Tony Blair gets family allowance for Leo.
You would be compensated in that way.
The people of Scotland demand and deserve no less.
In addition, tax rate cuts have behavioural impacts.
Individual class size data are not routinely collected.
Members should not just take my word for it, though.
I have a brief question.
That paper is in the public domain.
The inspectorate used to be an approved staffing establishment, although that has recently been dropped.
There is no problem with that.
Some of them were under the influence of alcohol.
The economic impact of that feeds through to Government calculations on inflation and interest rates.
We are just missing out some of the rich.
My feeling is that that is correct.
We have shown that that does not work.
We have seen the consequences in other countries that do not have credible fiscal plans.
That is another major principle for us.
However, the project is extremely complex.
I have a question for Moira Kelly and one for Elspeth Orcharton.
It takes no account of caring responsibilities, as council tax does.
We have been putting on pressure for such negotiations and will continue to do so.
As Mike Rumbles and Richard Baker pointed out, we have a real problem.
The situation is similar for VAT.
It did not touch on the costs.
Let me point to Sweden.
That is purely down to time.
I reread some of, but not all, the papers.
Goodwill is breaking out everywhere.
I have concerns about the BDA in Scotland.
I disagree entirely with that statement.
Tourism is the first and foremost benefit.
That is what I am doing.
I am not sure what will happen in that respect.
That is the operating model that makes airlines viable.
It would be easy to understand, simple to implement and universal in application.
The challenge transcends all traditional boundaries.
I am sorry to use the words you and we.
I turn to the Executive amendment, which has two parts.
Additional benefits, however, will arise from that accountability and openness.
If the plan is to be not merely a wish list, it needs more detail.
I might even attend the performance myself to see what it is like.
You talked about the bands.
A paper has been produced to outline the position.
There is no reason why schools cannot provide that kind of information.
Such a change can be fraught with difficulties.
A number of issues have been raised.
If there is, could you please get to it.
I am not going to give you the wrong answer.
I disagree with Iain Smith.
We will advance our arguments for local income tax.
I find it counterintuitive that there are no additional costs whatever.
Housing associations are funded in that manner.
No more than a few seconds, please, because it is not fair.
There would be a mighty row.
Yes, there is a harsh choice here.
That is absolutely achievable within the current structure.
Do the Germans attend too often or do Scottish ministers not attend often enough.
The expert group highlighted the volatility to the Calman commission.
Our recommendations should also question the widespread use of vending machines.
For looked after children, that is a bad tradition.
My second point relates to the Standards Committee.
Although that is inevitable, we in Scotland do not like to talk about it much.
It concerns the political direction in which the two levels of government wish to travel.
Many life chances are taken away from children in care.
An index of devolution, by its very definition, comprises a number of elements.
Motion, as amended, disagreed to.
Thank you for that full report, which raises a number of big issues.
I wonder what has happened to the old notion of collective responsibility in Government.
We should be able to fit that in with our work load.
I am trying to establish where the consensus on an inquiry lies.
It will not be given to you directly.
I have not thought about that question before.
On that basis, I do not believe that joint commencement powers are necessary.
It is the job of central Government to address the important issues of deprivation.
The short answer is that there are no plans at present to do so.
However, I will push ahead to that in a moment.
I am not suggesting that you would leave gates open.
The college is undoubtedly a centre of educational excellence.
In effect, it gives people responsibilities on which they cannot deliver, which undermines public confidence.
However, we decided that that would probably have unexpected and unfortunate consequences.
It has been very useful to the committee to have you here.
There is another issue, and it is not about the weather but about quality.
I have not thought about or examined the matter in any great detail.
In reality, companies often do not pay a lot of tax.
This Government has delivered a settlement for the health service that goes higher than that.
The correlation between price and misuse is well established.
I was just going to deal with two points of order that I heard earlier.
Children were not protected from harm.
Basically, we are where we are.
For example, the announcement on childcare was welcome.
I want to draw some conclusions from the various views that members have expressed.
Let us have a bit of consistency.
We in the Parliament also have the job of challenging stigma and ending discrimination.
We are confident that this is a good package for the workforce.
Just a few of them leaving might be an important factor.
Our performance on reducing the tax gap, compliance yield and so on is published.
I am happy to provide the figures.
The next franchise is years away, and increasing capacity for bikes on trains is imperative.
I will flag up several issues.
We now proceed to the election of a member of the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body.
I will deal briefly with the amendments.
Age Concern Scotland feels that it would be quite difficult to change the council tax.
To give no information at all can give the impression that no discussions took place.
We await the assessment of those trials with interest.
All that we recommend is that we break the link with statutory powers.
I want to make some progress, Mr Sheridan.
No one knows everything, and we in this Parliament have to learn that.
I am holding the evidence for that in my hand.
That is also important at the higher end.
We all need each other and we must value each other for Gods sake.
The SST is not a local tax.
That would mean that aggregates would come only from the larger quarries.
The theory is that banks do not take any significant risks in projects.
The relationship between local government, as a democratic entity, and central Government is becoming strained.
Unfortunately, that can be achieved only if the cabinet secretary twists the definitions.
If it has proposals, it should let us see them by the autumn.
At times we underestimate the tremendous strength of the Scottish education system.
I hope that that does not happen, but it is a worry.
Another problem is that funding is usually limited to three years.
We have some of the finest conditions in the world for growing shellfish.
I am not claiming to have submitted this in my own right.
However, I am not sure that people take a sense of joy from paying tax.
That is why there would be no increase in food prices.
In my view, that is the main issue.
There was a very clear gap between the two.
I would like you to finish now.
The rich, in Tommy Sheridans world, are not the millionaire estate owners.
Of councils in Scotland, Scottish Borders Council receives the eighth highest level of grant.
They are marching on the Parliament to debate education.
I start by acknowledging the words of Willie Coffey.
The tax options are very limited.
I found your presentation interesting.
We should remember that the council tax system has been reasonably successful.
For our part, the Conservatives appreciate that it is not entirely a bad news story.
The emphasis is on at the margins.
We would need a corporation tax rate that would encourage businesses to make those decisions.
Margo MacDonald mentioned that tenants are a priority.
It is difficult to say because the amount would be revenue based.
It is as simple as that.
Mark Ballard outlined the Greens position on land value tax.
He will now have more time to spend walking the fields of East Lothian.
As with software, there is a problem when we keep adding more and more.
However, we could also do things more efficiently.
That issue is very much related to the overall nature of the planning framework.
The Government will seek ways to ensure greater awareness and uptake of such measures.
What does that tell us about the process in which we are engaged.
Is that basically what you are saying.
We must look at the performance of primary and secondary schools.
We will come to how the Canadians manage it in a minute.
We have made very clear our commitment on that.
I just want to be clear.
Two years later, most of my concerns have been addressed.
It is a little early, but I will take the intervention.
One option that is being examined is moving to a prudential system.
I do not know whether Sylvia has attempted to introduce appropriate amendments.
With more time and some resources we could consider that.
It is not just about Scotland.
I am sure that that will comfort him greatly.
Retaining it would give the Executive the flexibility to do that if it so chose.
That is almost taken as a given, but it is by no means guaranteed.
Fifty US states agree with me, which is a good starting point.
Thank you very much for coming along and for your written submission.
I have two questions about land taxes.
That decision was made at a time when the committee was top heavy with lawyers.
There is obviously a penal tax rate, after which increases become self defeating.
I am convinced that the right policy decision was made.
We have a little time in hand for interventions if members want to take them.
That is a key part of the national priorities.
Are you aware of that.
Yes, but I have only four minutes for my speech.
Shall I talk about individuals or do you want me to stick to corporates.
That is a UK failure.
The necessary change takes commitment and often courage.
I call the meeting to order and welcome committee members.
Of course, those asymmetric effects would also include policy changes.
The European Committees report gives us a good starting point for that debate.
I am a bit confused by all the figures that are being thrown about.
Under this Administration, that hospital has been fully restored to the national health service.
You should go for a growth tax rather than one that is shrinking.
You must close means now.
Perhaps I have not interpreted it properly.
However, in aggregate and broadly, VAT is roughly as volatile as income tax.
It is the perfect storm scenario  lost jobs, low tax base and public spending problems.
He has a great deal to live up to.
I have witnessed changes in short term thinking as well.
I am sure that our athletes will inspire our youngsters.
I would be happy to take one final intervention.
Mike Tholen highlighted some of the main taxation differences.
Members have received a copy of the instrument and have raised no concerns.
] When will it do that for Scotland and stop running Scotland down.
We all know that that is what we have to do as individuals.
I have an observation to make.
This follows on from the questions from the convener and Mr Chisholm.
There is a misconception that independent schools are dripping in wealth.
If that is what no detriment means, it builds in an extremely perverse incentive.
The Executive will respond to the committees report.
I invite brief opening remarks before we move to questions.
Maybe I am just a simple politician.
I am afraid that the member is out of date.
Far be it from me to be negative about the whole report.
I therefore agree that this is a window of opportunity.
It is incumbent on the Executive to work to tackle both those problems.
That negative effect is a real threat in the north east.
I have a small aside.
You have to leave a long enough period for the right incentives to operate.
We must show sensitivity to youngsters and recognise where they are likely to make progress.
When the Parliament was established, that commitment was changed to consultation.
We know some things, however.
Extensive fieldwork is undertaken along with environmental charities that work in the area.
It is an interesting issue, which we have discussed with the professional bodies.
Mr Gordon should be assured that the minister takes a supportive approach to local government.
If that happens, youngsters will buy into physical activity for life.
I would like some clarification.
We are dealing with difficult and sometimes dangerous people.
The Scottish socialist tax proposed by Tommy Sheridan is fatally flawed.
That is the reality of budget making for private as well as public bodies.
I am very happy to do that, but I repeat my earlier remark.
On top of that, there have been specific cuts in Scottish sporting activity.
I have met the petitioner, as has Robin, I believe.
The issues that are being discussed here are those that affect our membership across Scotland.
I am grateful to all members who have contributed.
The truth is that they are being driven down to England against their will.
I disagree with his point that these things are not comparable.
Tommy, I am asking the question of the professor.
I seek the witnesses views not on fiscal departures but on fiscal arrivals.
That is partly because we have finite resources.
I know that other councils are facing similar problems.
Eleanor Coner is absolutely right.
We feel strongly about the set aside arrangement for housing.
I welcome the chance to talk to my MSP, given that I come from Strathspey.
Significant support was received from central Government towards the cost of the Glasgow project.
The Azores judgment relates to such a measure that was contemplated elsewhere in the EU.
Taxes would still be collected by a single agency and put in a central pool.
I presume that that would be done through the block grant.
Nicol Stephen gave his proxy vote to a Labour councillor.
I would expect a lot more articles such as that in the future.
You were supposed to make your intervention brief, Mr Welsh.
If he does, he will see that the city needs more money, not less.
We must consider that matter.
They have obviously forgotten about the little interlude that came in between.
I am pleased to have that reassurance that you could have a look at it.
Who actually suggested that separate super quango It was not the Labour Party.
I want to mention one other thing in passing.
For that, I used unadjusted data from Registers of Scotland.
We have to understand why that was the case.
Do members have any comments.
That is just an example.
All that they seem to be interested in doing is cutting and cutting again.
Our point is about non statutory searches.
There are clearly ways in which the proposal could be taken forward.
Yes, and I certainly hope that we do.
We would like to publish the report on Friday.
The member needs to start winding up.
That will vary a little bit depending on individual circumstances.
The hypocrisy from the SNP is also pretty predictable.
COSLA can play a co ordinating role and help to stimulate investment throughout the country.
The danger of a definition is highlighted in the Executives response.
It would be unfair to say less than that.
We are looking to extend the registration period for patients.
Its beautiful setting belies a somewhat turbulent academic history in recent years.
Mr McNeish, are you also happy to do that.
We feel very proud, here in the Parliament today.
That is the key finding.
Farmers markets and farm shops are good things.
That is quite controversial and is quite a fundamentally difficult thing to do.
A lot of people to whom we have spoken have asked for certainty.
The SNPs proposals would do nothing for local authorities.
Such people will not be easy to find in the local government community in Scotland.
 You might do either thing and neither of them is illogical.
Thank you for the invitation to discuss the Scotland Bill with the committee.
We have characterised each of the neighbourhoods and identified the needs across them.
I refer to the specific point that Des McNulty raised about not having anonymous complainants.
I am delighted to take on the challenge that Mr Swinney would like to set.
Unfortunately, my lectern was not working.
Until we achieve that accountability, we cannot make progress towards genuinely autonomous local government.
We also support sub member states involvement and want to see that expanded.
If I remember rightly, HMRC failed to produce a system that worked.
There will be a follow through, which will incentivise economic development and growth in Scotland.
From a visual point of view, the variation does not appear to be significant.
I want to follow up points that Tricia Marwick and the convener made.
Your second point was about what might be called the unit cost.
Discussions about local government finance can be technical.
Next year, the electorate will remember him for that.
That is where we saw the principal differences.
Fish products can also play a role in Scotlands reputation for high quality foodstuffs.
There was also some discussion of certain parties cuddling up together.
The establishment of a pathway of care is a commendable and logical step to take.
We see the first time buyer grant as part of an overall package of measures.
Canada, for example, has natural resource and sales taxes.
I cannot speak on behalf of any political party.
You said that you want a system that is based on ability to pay.
I am asking for your opinion.
can generate significant increases in revenue.
General consensus seems to be forming on that matter.
Statistical analyses would show that Governments are not particularly good at long term forecasting.
That would not disappear overnight.
Johann Lamont and Mary Scanlon mentioned the registration of landlords.
They do not understand what independence would mean, because there are different models of independence.
The airport link would have an effect on land value in Glasgow.
I am very happy with that response.
None of those measures was put into practice.
Nonetheless, we should look at what Microsoft actually does in Ireland.
That is what I had in mind.
I am quite happy to produce the evidence beyond reasonable doubt for Mike Rumbles.
That is a reasonable point.
People cannot work in silos in relation to self directed support.
That is obviously a concern for the committee, given the inaccuracies in that data.
However, as Rob Gibson said, there are a considerable number of unproductive sites.
The service tax substitutes local accountability with centralised decision making.
I have an issue with that.
Iain Crichton Smith said he who loses his language loses his world.
I do not have a lot to add.
It is intended that guidance will specify which groups should be consulted as a minimum.
An essential ingredient of meeting those challenges is to test the product.
Let me turn briefly to some of the issues raised this morning.
How does that square with what he has just said.
With local business taxation, we could go even further.
I thank, too, Alisdair McIntosh and Laura Crawforth, who have sat there very patiently.
What is your view of that particular outcome Are you very pleased with it.
Businesses must understand the cyber threat their organisation faces and take strong protective action themselves.
As ever, it is those who are most motivated who benefit most from programmes.
If we lose it, we will lose something that is priceless.
On a purely technical basis, it is a completely terrible tax.
We have to work flexibly with the communities and the demand.
That will be a welcome debate.
However, I agree that we would be negotiating the terms of our continuing membership.
First, there was not enough prescription on pooled budgets in the legislation.
The committee members all seem stunned.
Under Labour, more and more taxes are levied.
That faith was absolutely integral to how people reacted.
Margaret Smith highlighted those deficiencies accurately and well in her speech.
After reorganisation we were left with a situation where there had been capping controls.
That means that we just have to work together.
It could take five years or it could take five minutes.
I have to say that this session has certainly been lively.
We are well prepared for the summit.
You have the opportunity to make an opening statement.
The issue is also to do with the chain of service.
For women, that was much less likely, from the state pension perspective.
It is half the standard rate of income tax.
Mark Ballards opening speech reflected on the dual nature of the debate.
With just a year to go, the figures are going in the wrong direction.
I think that it will take me about a minute, Presiding Officer.
I congratulate the cabinet minister for moving this issue forward quickly.
That was only two years ago.
Only limited time was available to progress that work.
My understanding is that the Scottish Government wants to compare like with like.
We also suggest subdividing the lower end bands.
I have a couple of quick questions.
Social care is pivotal to the care of all who require the service.
I also support Europe, as others have mentioned, in competitions such as the Ryder cup.
Flexibility is always preferable in tax policy.
Tommy, I do not want you to hector the witnesses.
That is one of the reasons why we rejected an income tax.
Not to be outdone, Drew Scott and I have submitted two lots of evidence.
That is undoubtedly a key issue.
It is essential that we get it right.
It fills the heart with pleasure when things are right.
It is likely that a considerable amount of equalisation would be required.
The energy crops regulations are English regulations.
The scheme should have been included in housing management legislation, not antisocial behaviour legislation.
I might quote you on that in relation to another issue.
We welcome change and challenge provided that they are managed.
The reason is that some volatile taxes are volatile up the way.
Three of our advisers are present  Malcolm MacKenzie, Sally Brown and Lindsay Paterson.
The question is what else may be done in conjunction with the rate of tax.
The bill is a worker friendly bill from a worker friendly party.
The co ordinator should be responsible for identifying them.
Each of those initiatives will improve waiting times.
However, the main problem is entering the park.
If I suggested in any way that that is the case, I withdraw it immediately.
I will address both of those points in my speech.
A small minority are in favour of a local income tax.
Effectively, councils are being forced to opt for stock transfer.
We have had a very interesting presentation from you.
As long as it is not a call for independence, that is okay.
There is a kind of political flagging going on there.
Could we add a few words, instead of eliminating that sentence.
We need to ensure that the upward trend continues.
That seems a bit simpler than what is in our current UK legislation.
In an ideal world that type of revenue would change.
Aberdeen is perceived as handier for me than Edinburgh is, but it is not.
I will put my question in three parts.
I would rather we followed the suggested action than did what the petition suggests.
We will be talking about joint commencement quite a lot.
A great deal of forethought and planning has to go into taking forward such projects.
I will give an example, because I want to put my question in context.
The bill does not provide for that.
 Does that help to answer your question.
I would have thought that pubs would benefit from the process that you have described.
Similarly, excluding young people from the labour market is very costly.
I will give way to the minister.
The register is meant to be open to all on payment of an inspection fee.
Liberal Democrats had a quick look at the spread of lottery funding.
Sylvia Jackson and others want to ask what amounts to special treatment.
It tends to be seen as part of wage remuneration.
I am going to go on to talk about that.
I have not said anything very specific, but you invited us not to be specific.
You can make of that what you will.
We have a shortage of Gaelic teachers.
We are still focused on the income tax proposals.
I remind members of the background to the bill.
Our programme will fulfil that objective.
On a point of order, Presiding Officer.
I return to Ms Watts comment about subsidiarity.
We have some wonderful visits from groups every day.
Perhaps they will reflect on their previous comments.
The Committee of the Regions is an underestimated body.
For example, there is a managed clinical network for palliative care in Forth valley.
People could split their vote, and there would be flexibility.
The Local Government Committees report is certainly comprehensive and the evidence is certainly voluminous.
He knows the respect that I have for his work in that area.
The coalescing of vested interests was powerful, and it remains as powerful today.
The SNPs local income tax proposals are deeply flawed.
I was disappointed to hear Kenny MacAskills comments.
I am always a little wary when avoidance and evasion are so closely associated.
If someone brings forward the idea, we will look at all such matters carefully.
This is a matter for the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister.
That amount was in the budget.
Various models for local income tax arrangements have been discussed.
Professor Iain McLean made that point in evidence to the committee the other day.
There is no definitive study on it.
You state that you want to retain the pooling of non domestic rate income.
Could you perhaps ask the minister a question.
The uplift in value has been enormous.
COSLA accepts that more partnership working with the business sector is needed.
Under the bill, we would lose IT people rather than attract fresh talent to Scotland.
As has been said, the SNP sees the attractions of a local income tax.
You are saying that rent and land charges together would level each other out.
Commissioners were alive to the issue  we took advice in that regard.
We can add that information.
I will emphasise some points at the outset.
I agree with almost all of that.
We have a responsibility to recognise that.
Key to that, according to Dr Webster, is the inherent discipline in the industry.
There are not that many single earner households.
Regulations were required to implement the directive on waste incineration.
Going to Aberdeen is important.
I do not have the power to alter the timings.
That reminds me of a psychologist with whom I used to work.
Perhaps we have sometimes mixed the economic and political notions of the word.
Graeme Pearson will have his evidence of effective oversight then.
All the regimes have good and bad aspects.
He said that it was an excellent post to have created.
We could go on through those numbers.
Thankfully, I do not speak for Glasgow Labour Party.
The conditions under which a new tax can be introduced are also incredibly restrictive.
I will make a brief response before I ask Iain McMillan to comment.
The Scottish Government is investing record levels of funding in our universities.
The methodology is not unusual.
I also welcome the enthusiastic support of Ian Jenkins.
I am aware of the background and of the position that faces Inverness College.
He described our population as decreasing when it is not.
The Olympics should not be manipulated cynically to bring about a constitutional change.
Ministers have accepted the fact that councils have to do better at collecting council tax.
There is no argument to substantiate that.
The Labour Party is on shifting ground on that matter.
That is why they are such a key part of our proposals.
That is an example of a number of sectors coming together to deliver.
That is similar to what happened with the Financial Services Authority.
The preventive measures that the minister outlined in her plan are important.
We cannot go on any longer suggesting that the problem cannot be solved.
As Professor Scott said, that is the reason why the no detriment clause was introduced.
However, as I said, that would be a democratic decision.
I do not want to anticipate it, either, but surely you must think about it.
I am sorry about that, Mr Togneri.
So, we agree  it is a climbdown by the First Minister.
They will particularly help the women of Malawi and Zambia.
John Scott has done a tremendous amount on local food in Scotland.
The service is entirely independent of other interests within child care services.
It would seem that quite a bit of work remains to be done.
You said that other taxes, along with council tax, would be the preferable option.
We are currently considering how we might generate greater interest in civic participation.
Mental health issues have a high profile in Scotland.
However, we share her concern that small businesses need access to finance.
Co operation informs policy and there is cross border collaboration.
We owe it to the industry to do so.
You mentioned fiscal drag and the effect of the arrangements.
I study so many taxes.
I am pleased to hear what the finance secretary said.
Those difficulties are symptomatic of an organisation that is not firing on all cylinders.
The Parliament voted for the disqualified from working with children list not to be retrospective.
Gradually, it has given up its powers to tax or has had them removed.
We can assure Mr Ewing that we are on the case.
I just tried to describe the grounds.
We have received apologies from Willie Rennie.
Most members have referred to the twin challenges of disease and escapes.
I am certainly not advocating anything that the Adam Smith Institute would advocate.
That is what happens in such things.
It is included in the Governments efficiency programme.
The committee looked at the redistribution mechanism.
He had to fight hard with the sceptical European Commission about that.
I will refer to a couple of sections of the bill that require clarification.
As other members have said, we need to slim down the bureaucracy.
That is a positive statement.
We have made some progress with finding ways of working round it.
Land tax is a public declaration of the capacity to pay.
George MacBride made a fairly stout defence of the comprehensive system.
We commissioned research from Heriot Watt University, which recommended rebanding and revaluation.
I do not think that we need PGI status for whisky.
If it cannot prove that, it has not been done.
They gave an interesting answer that stands up to scrutiny.
Thank you for the invitation to speak this morning.
He was also awarded the Nobel medal for physics.
I have some concerns about your submission.
They are, in effect, all methods of borrowing.
I agree that you should certainly ensure that your money is your money.
Thank you for your evidence, Professor Holtham.
The paper says that that is where the relationship exists.
I agree with what you say, convener.
What about the poll tax.
For example, bipolar is characterised by extreme highs followed by extreme lows.
Do you despair of us all [Laughter.
That is partly why we have suggested investment only for one year.
Yes, they should be devolved.
There is still quite a long way to go.
Some of that exercises conclusions will form part of the bill.
So, you would expect the attraction to be removed.
Perhaps that is because Mr Swinney has become the partys finance spokesman.
Does Bill Aitken disagree with Struan Stevenson, who advocates a Tory SNP alliance.
We cannot implement such a measure if it breaches state aid rules.
Hardly an extra penny has been allocated as a result of those reviews.
It will certainly meet the community aspirations for schools, following the consultation exercise.
We probably came here today with more questions than answers.
I want to make two points.
We can offer the committee their expertise and dedicated assistance in its deliberations.
There are genuine concerns that people who have extremely large properties pay insufficient local tax.
John Wilson is right to ask about who could deliver services.
No, she is in her last minute.
It is difficult to get from Edinburgh to Glasgow airport.
The minister did not mention refugees either.
I thank the Deputy First Minister for advance sight of her statement.
We seem to have exhausted questions from members of the committee.
I think that our proposals honour those aims.
Of course, it is about no detriment à propos forecasting errors.
I could probably dream up other general principles of the same character.
You said that radical change is not welcome.
I can find you various studies that give you various results on that topic.
Despite that, the council tax is subject to much greater scrutiny than any other tax.
I think that the Executive has acted properly at all stages.
It will never have enough money.
Did you identify any countries that carry out a regular revaluation.
There is mileage in reforming the structure of the council tax.
Is that the same Treasury that is projecting this figure.
Which is it Is it a blend of the two.
The commission has nothing to do with the bill.
I will clarify the position.
Western Isles Council and the Highland Council recently published their Gaelic plans.
There certainly is such an element.
Two things are going on.
The fiscal commission suggests applying the four principles of simplicity, neutrality, stability and flexibility.
Am I right in thinking that that was where the commission came from, too.
Yes, and research on forecast errors, too.
Those concerns will have to be addressed.
In general, if you issue your own bonds you will pay slightly more.
Notwithstanding that good news, we still face serious challenges.
I hope that that enthusiasm is emulated across the Parliament.
As I understand it, dental technicians did not contribute to the debate.
That is not necessarily always the case.
I will, of course, pay due heed to the advice that they give me.
Have I missed any points.
It is normal practice to consider such matters in private.
It is indeed an ambitious programme, as Lewis Macdonald fairly said.
That is what we recommend.
You mentioned the Welfare Reform Committee.
They have many companions in misfortune.
We should not put these protectionist barriers in place.
I am just reporting what the academic literature says.
What is your position on fiscal autonomy.
I am not sure that it would.
If it works to the benefit of our communities, we should use it.
As a matter of fact, I agree with Mr Wheelhouse.
I have not thought deeply about how you would recalibrate without a needs based mechanism.
There is no agreed route and we have no parliamentary powers to proceed.
That is an interesting response from Professor Hughes Hallett.
I am not sure that I can answer the question.
I expect to see reflected in those that affect Ayrshire the matters that she raised.
In effect, what we are saying runs counter to what Sir Kenneth Calman just said.
We have done no research.
We should not necessarily look at varying tax rates for corporate tax.
We are not stopping you doing that.
What work could be undertaken in that respect.
But there was a financial penalty.
Surely, from an economic point of view, the Executive would wish to have control.
However, we did not advocate that.
First, I thank them for coming along and giving us the benefit of their evidence.
Will Robert Brown give way.
We simply have to get this right.
It is not a financial penalty.
Malcolm Chisholm talked about retrofits.
In my opening remarks, I will talk about three sets of issues.
Will you pick up the cost.
We will take that on board, Kevin, and discuss what we will do.
That can have serious consequences.
My expertise is not in palliative care.
Our guidance to local authorities is of a broad and strategic nature.
I do not think that Robin Harper and I are far apart on this.
Thank you for the opportunity to attend the meeting.
The most visible sign, politically, of those issues is the so called bedroom tax.
I will ask a question about public private partnerships.
The word dialogue is exactly right.
Under the Scotland Bill, we cannot replace taxes.
It will rise above inflation again next week.
I offer the member some encouraging news.
That is not the point  the issue is dentists who may leave in the future.
We are supposed to be taking an ambitious look at local government finance.
Scotlands rehabilitation rates have been too low for far too long.
The member says that he was not disagreeing.
The support of the banks is important, and I am making that point to them.
Before I bring in Alison Johnstone, I have a question.
I will address it to Moira Kelly.
According to my reading, that works quite favourably for Scotland in such circumstances.
We hope that it will, and we hope that it will fair better this time.
I echo his comments on Danny Coffey.
We know from empirical studies that the price structure would not be altered.
Can you tell us now what you think the cost of implementation will be.
You were talking about volatility a minute ago.
The Greens will vote for the Government motion and the Labour amendment.
I hope that Willie Rennie, who claims to be a devolutionist, will support that proposal.
I kept my initial remarks brief so that I could come back into the discussion.
The US and other big emitters really must start to play their part.
We all hope for the benefits that have been well articulated by North Ayrshire.
First, we will invite general views on the bill.
Most of the contributions on wet weather have come from west coast politicians.
We are trying to consider your petition seriously.
The main point of the article was contained in a response to an earlier question.
I do not support the bill.
I have a quick point of clarification for Mr Swinney.
I feel that the chamber is united on this bill.
In my submission I mentioned transport, telecommunications and other utilities.
Playing fields are not the only issue, and the Executive supports a broad approach.
Too often under the UK system, unfortunately, the various systems work against each other.
In short, an educational and enjoyable experience awaits them.
It is collected by the councils and divvied up.
I am sure that everyone agrees that that change is welcome.
As I said, no one would quarrel with the bills principles.
My question was not about voter turnout, but about local councils.
Susan Deacon made the point that we must not just wait for a strategy.
That is a good idea.
Fifth or sixth, I think.
The answer must be different for each federal country.
They are non profit bodies that raise funds through the hard work of unpaid volunteers.
The Executive has proposed a range of measures.
She is looking forward to taking her bilingual skills into secondary school.
The same procedure will apply for the second motion.
I want to make some progress.
I concede that most other systems work with more than one local tax.
We are having a debate about what we think are accessibility strategies.
It has a rather positive set of forecasts for stamp duty revenue.
I hope that you accept my assurance that the process is on going.
We will contact you, if we need to.
The market rents would be determined locally and ought to be efficiently collected.
Let us look at some of the quotations.
Impending enlargement may be the catalyst for the current debate, but change is long overdue.
As a Scottish person, I am keen for Scotland to be connected in every regard.
A lot more remains to be done.
My amendments are designed to strengthen the bill.
Mr Wallace was sliding downhill as usual.
That is the source of our concern.
There are many arguments against the council tax.
That is correct, but they base the decisions on the market.
The range and mixture of authorities are entirely different now.
I agree with Phil Gallie about the principle of cultural diversity.
A numerical example in my submission goes through the steps.
Decisions on the location of the Gogar station are at an advanced stage.
Part of that work is on public sector trusts.
Because of those problems, he finds going to the theatre quite hard.
Members asked us to bring to the chamber information about infrastructure projects.
In other words, the authority would be rewarded for its efforts to generate additional income.
The majority of our debt clients are on low incomes.
In other words, public bodies have a range of commitments.
Let us begin at the first page.
HMRC has established a clear area within its organisation that is responsible for devolved taxes.
As I have said before, it is possible to engage in creative contracting.
All three of those statements will turn out to be untrue.
Why do we not go the full way.
I will speak briefly about the other amendments.
Does Willie Rennie want to grasp the hot potato.
My constituency falls within the Glasgow catchment.
Thank you for bringing that to the attention of the chamber, Ms MacDonald.
That will be followed by an intergovernmental conference.
You do not want to do that.
Is that really fair I suggest to Parliament that it is not.
That did not automatically feed through to a reduction in the Scottish block grant.
That is not the impression that I mean to give.
I am a Labour MSP for the Highlands and Islands.
People come from many different backgrounds and many different income bands.
We seem to have consensus between the secretary of state and Mr McLetchie.
That seems to be theoretically possible, at least.
I read with great interest what your submission says about the experience in Quebec.
Instead, I am concerned about its earning capacity.
The system requires to be simplified.
Alex Neil said that he did not believe that his amendments would carry that force.
I have listened carefully to the debate.
Frankly, that is the most practical and sensible way of proceeding.
That is what local authorities are doing.
May I make a brief point.
It is about the Azores judgment, Mr Swinney.
We must work hard to ensure that those targets are met.
I suppose that depends on whether one regards consultancy as a profession.
I put that on the record.
I always support my local teams and competitors first.
The change is in emphasis and presentation more than anything.
The minister misses the point.
I am certainly proud to have my name attached to it.
I am sure that you will.
I am sorry that I did not answer that question.
I think that two of us would like to answer that.
The minister must substantiate his claim that that money has been reinvested in local authorities.
We would be open to any suggestions.
We believe really strongly in co design.
That is a slightly different thing.
I agree with almost everything that Ben Thomson has said.
If the local authorities do not embrace PPP, things are simply not replaced or repaired.
If I wanted to go to a pantomime, I would book in at the Kings.
Professor Kay, you have opened up many areas that I want to ask about.
There are well understood and well established mechanisms and governance arrangements for that.
I ask the minister to consider the results of previous work and reports.
That is why I do not see it as a solution to the gearing problem.
If it was, I have probably forgotten it by now.
Irene Oldfather mentioned the scrutiny reserve.
I was going to try to widen things out, convener.
What can we do We have a unique role in formulating policy and legislation.
We have received apologies from James Dornan and Willie Coffey.
It is up to the responsible Parliament to put in place the responsible compensation arrangements.
However, we will ensure that resources are provided and that Scotland is prepared.
The original intention of PPP was to solve that problem.
Provided that they give that support, we can have a profitable aquaculture sector in Scotland.
A raft of administration has proved necessary to support challenging illegal evasion.
We have considered what the report says about the local income tax proposals.
That has been the main driver of the reduction in revenue.
Those are the rich in Tommys world.
Unfortunately, the proposal in Andrew Arbuckles motion would not do that.
Neither of you has moved a stage further to the distinctive nature of Scottish education.
My second broad point is on the importance of education at school level.
I agree with much of what Malcolm Chisholm said.
I will run through the scenarios.
Both those points should be in our recommendations.
Is that a reasonable observation.
If the child was not at the school, the parent would not be involved.
Like others, I am grateful to Robert Brown for securing this debate.
That is what I am looking for.
We must look at how we can take that forward.
I hope that others in Scotland will follow.
After all, there is no poverty in nature.
The sector is crying out for it.
Do you not accept that evidence.
Hugh Henry made excellent points about the pressure on council budgets.
That debate would be on a motion on behalf of the committee.
The SNP is committed to doing that.
We want to do that for two reasons.
In our view, a local income tax will not of itself be the panacea.
I am not haranguing anyone.
Some sort of insurance measure needs to be built in.
Children are products of their families.
Entrepreneurs are driven by access to funding, which is clearly highly relevant at the moment.
We could hold an inquiry, but we would not learn anything more about the problems.
We need a local taxation system that is linked to the ability to pay.
At a national level, we are trying to set the framework for those local discussions.
He might have converted them to more brilliant ideas.
There is a clear lack of research on that, as on other areas.
We will need to invest time in making those decisions.
I cannot believe that you just said that, Mr Macdonald.
There are many subjects on which we would like to have more information.
Not just now, Mr Baker.
For years, we have all supported the financial services industry in Scotland.
That is a risk that you are taking on.
Still, I will make one more attempt.
The issue has been raised time and again, but no progress has been made.
We compete as Scotland in the Commonwealth games and as Britain in the Olympic games.
It is worth stating that again  outcomes with foster parents are the best.
However, I give him credit for at least turning up.
That might be called the Dumfries and Galloway question, which Elaine Murray has spoken about.
If the industry is kept going, it can help to sustain the whole community.
Public Petitions Committee	Jim Hume.
followed by	Executive Debate  Health and Wellbeing of the People of Scotland.
I know how difficult and dreadful the situation has been for them.
There will of course be individuals who decide to do that.
I welcome our witnesses, who are Jim McColl, Professor Hughes Hallett and Norman Springford.
The possibility of fiscal flight has not been a real consideration of his.
It is important to do something about that right now.
An Executive cover note and a regulatory impact assessment accompany the regulations.
As I said, we are preparing plans to implement the Bichard recommendations further.
That has been highlighted by many people in non governmental organisations.
If that is appropriate, we would be happy to enter into it.
I wonder whether the minister has included inflation in that figure.
I remember when the law was written on stone.
Persuasion is the way forward, rather than launching an attack on an individual dentist.
I will come back to you in a minute, Laura.
That follows on from my point about the spillovers of one tax on to another.
Thank you very much, cabinet secretary.
Perhaps the board will do something off the cuff.
Local government in Scotland needs a reformed and robust system of local government finance.
Throughout the bill, there are errors and omissions.
I have responded previously to David Davidsons point about colleges in rural areas.
I will never wear a pin striped kilt.
I just want to thank the committee for all its help.
Therefore the burden of council tax is higher in Scotland.
That is the record of the Conservative Party in government.
As a party, we have looked at the evidence that Calman took.
An omnipotent, unaccountable police force delivers a police state.
I will not write to the committee on that point.
I thought that the point of taxing tobacco so heavily was to stop people smoking.
If there are moves offshore, there is a loss to the UK.
Some concordat or system would have to say by how much different people could cut.
Such decisions have rarely involved compulsory redundancies.
Clearly, that part of the code is of concern to members.
However, it is only one of many factors.
We are adding to the recommendations.
Just becoming independent will not do the trick.
It would add complexity to the current arrangements, so we do not accept that recommendation.
I very much appreciate the ministers giving way.
When we did not have that, it became very complicated.
Our system has gone far too far in removing that discretion.
I can expand on that a little.
It is worth repeating and constantly reminding ourselves of those facts.
I have managed to obtain some responses, but not the majority, unfortunately.
Ring fencing has been mentioned.
Stewart Maxwell rambled on about the Scottish football team.
That gives a choice to the local elector at every local election.
However, the aquaculture industry has attracted criticism and concern, mainly on environmental issues.
I do not like the subordinate feel to that phrase, but they spoke when appropriate.
I thank all of you for coming along, which is much appreciated.
Gavin Brown has the next question.
We know that there is real joy in sport.
Will the Inland Revenue give evidence at a future date.
That was a really helpful introduction by Professor Holtham.
We have thought about that quite a lot.
People might want to debate whether England is such a place.
The scale of corporation tax is not quite the same as that of income tax.
There is, of course, a lot of risk there.
On the anti avoidance measure, the bill is significantly different and is distinctly stronger.
That is why the system needs to change.
In other areas, ministers have committed to early action to reduce emissions each year.
Over time, the two things pretty much cancel each other out.
I am aware of the members comments on the subject in yesterdays Herald.
Transparency would also come into it.
Erecting stiles, for example, is easy.
We are in the process of asking follow up questions on those.
The minister referred to the role that hospital visitors can play in combating HAI.
I could go on, but I will not.
You say that the system will be revenue neutral.
Anything that adds to it is very unwelcome.
I will make some progress, if the member does not mind.
That will be a fairer and more transparent means of charging non household customers.
The other languages are not offered.
I do not support socialism or the Scottish service tax bill.
I hope that that is welcomed.
I wonder whether Governments have done that.
I assume that the marine bill will address that issue.
We want to build the national health service and put patients, nurses and doctors first.
The market is extremely competitive.
You were sitting at the back, so you know the procedure.
The problem with the Executive is that it is afraid to embrace new ideas.
As I said, I am in difficult territory.
The bottom line is that the local income tax sums do not add up.
Somebody has lectured you about multilevel modelling.
Because they were fluctuating so much during the period concerned, the survey size was improved.
We have council tax, non domestic rates, landfill tax, stamp duty and land tax.
We do not believe for a minute that this bill meets those criteria.
The motion should be rejected.
There are other ways of raising funds beyond council tax.
The council tax benefit system is a nightmare.
We worked with the business community on most of that.
I am not sure whether David Bell has done anything in that regard.
That is good news for village halls.
Is there any sign that that is likely to happen.
As usual, the SNP has not reflected on the alternative developments that are taking place.
Let us not make APD the thrust of the question, then.
Yes, you could move to a situation in which there was assignment of tax revenues.
Indeed, fisheries was a red line issue during the most recent discussions.
To a fair extent, that protocol has applied.
You alluded to that when you spoke about putting the money into preventative spend.
We have opposed the centralisation of care into a single national care service.
We should not be afraid to embrace new ideas.
There were two major periods of local government service expansion.
Grampian has been singled out as requiring investment and action to address problems with access.
I know that my announcement today has been eagerly awaited by many people.
The minister has just referred to additional core funding.
I look forward to members support in enabling us to do that.
This year is playing out better than last year.
Yes, we will do that.
We will have a five minute comfort break.
Funding devo more talks about a very different approach to grant from the Barnett formula.
Thanks to all three of you for your evidence.
However, the extensive use of unregulated stop and search powers threatens civil liberties.
Whether they will listen and act on what we say is a different story.
That is why the figure is there.
For HMRC, an accounting officer will have specific responsibility for Scottish matters.
I will start with Brian Adam.
Many of our housing availability problems rest firmly at the Tories door.
Indeed, the same issue arises with summary warrants.
If there is any problem, we turn to government.
Individuals may leave Scotland and they may leave local authority areas, but land does not.
They would want to ensure that they were getting value for money.
The basis of that information will, of course, be fully open to scrutiny.
There are good reasons for that.
That figure is a maximum.
It might be the case for an older person, but not for a younger person.
Presiding Officer, I need to proceed.
The difficulty lies in establishing the need for evidence taking and the role of reporters.
When the unpredictable happens, how do you deal with it.
We will just have to agree to disagree on that.
Communication like that needs to continue.
The ability to raise ones own funds is one element of capacity.
I apologise, Mr Whittam, if we overpromoted you.
Hold on, we were talking about accountability.
That is how we could create some genuine growth.
Which is exactly what happens with the current income tax arrangements.
I am glad that he is taking the debate seriously.
Oil revenues come into the argument.
However, the key land issue is cost.
You have made a strong case for the city of Glasgow.
 I do not want to hold out that that is necessarily straightforward to do.
The chief executive of the Scottish Parliament also took part.
Finally, I turn to Mark Ballards speech.
This is a big step forward for Scotland.
The figure has come down in recent years.
Weak though it may be, it is all that is available.
That is all to the good.
There seem to be two possible solutions.
I will go through some of it.
I think that the only people who might be irritated are those in broadcasting.
I think that we might have transgressed our own rules in the previous question.
The issue is a simple one  it is about investment.
Some of the other costs are, as you say, proposed additional costs.
That is not the kind of workforce that I envisage for a modern Scotland.
If we are looking for growth in SMEs, let us give them the incentives.
I am very happy to do so.
That is how it comes out.
The application was turned down.
We can get ourselves into some difficulties with that.
Will he assist them in changing careers.
That found that the Standards Committees decisions had been entirely appropriate.
Ultimately, there is no good health without good mental health.
You would like a short opening statement.
Another way of describing that could be as having more wealth to share.
As soon as we split it, complexity and lack of understanding come in.
I did not mean that at all.
That is what the infrastructure plan does.
Amendment, as amended, agreed to.
Is it the Treasury that gives the information to the Office for Budget Responsibility.
There are many issues there.
It is a beautiful solution.
I regret very much that I have again to take up chamber time.
That is a massive transformation.
Some have argued that the problem in Edinburgh is not resources but land.
All that we ask is that the levy is fair.
I take Sylvia Jackson back to her comment about scaremongering.
How should the issue be addressed in the local communities that you are concerned about.
It is clear that there are choices to be made in such areas of policy.
All local authorities face difficulties.
One would accept that there is vagueness and that there needs to be clarity.
We need a plan for long term capital spending.
I will move on to another aspect of the issue.
Perhaps they are sometimes reluctant to acknowledge structural authority.
Something like the attack was widely expected.
Does he agree that there is room for expansion.
The assumption is being made that income tax is the only option.
Presumably, the news from Stranraer means that the figures there have got even worse.
I cannot see you without them but I cannot read with them.
Maybe on another occasion I will try.
She was absolutely right to highlight how dramatically the situation has improved in recent years.
We produced it as an illustrative example.
I am very pleased to introduce the debate.
I have observed that process for decades.
Sometimes, the debate on core skills is not taken far enough.
The point was about the mechanisms for resolving disputes.
The issue of legislative consent is quite important.
I would be grateful for the members comments.
However, it is important that what the bill can achieve is kept in context.
they are not susceptible to sudden reductions.
The one joint ministerial sub committee that is working is on Europe.
I do not think that I can give you any specific clues.
If he is, it is two years after the event, which is worth noting.
Perhaps we may have the opportunity to get the service established before too long.
There is further work to take forward in that area.
We are the people who want to access the countryside.
At face value, that was quite attractive.
Is it agreed that we have nothing to report on the instruments Members indicated agreement.
Ireland has been extremely successful in having low corporation tax and relatively high personal tax.
We have achieved that with this decision.
The circumstances must be discussed openly with the Inland Revenue, which will give its ruling.
We hope to have them completed and sent to you as soon as possible.
I will ask you what may be an unfair question.
Legislation bans imports from GS diseased areas.
I understood that it was Lib Dem policy into the previous election.
We have started that process by working to establish consensus across every political party.
The non distribution of surpluses to equity investors is a feature of the NPDO.
A huge range of benefits apply in that regard.
I firmly believe that that is how we should progress the debate.
I am glad to hear it.
There have been a number of studies on the matter.
The Government does not underestimate the challenge that we face.
We need to think about rural housing and how that is funded.
I presume that that practice would be more common.
It has made its political judgments.
It is clear that the petitioners are concerned.
There is more clarity about how problems can be dealt with.
All those agreements exist within the OECD countries.
So am I, Mr Swinney.
There are apologies also from Patricia Ferguson.
Mr Jenkins made a valid point about small rural schools.
We are not suggesting significant change.
Is that not a real and fact based concern.
I turn to the SNP motion.
I hope that the Executive will reconsider that too, as it has misunderstood that recommendation.
The Famous Grouse, for example, is committed to using only home grown barley.
I now pass over to John Mason.
That is what the Scottish Government proposes.
Property cycles are driven by land speculation, rather than by property or house speculation.
Scotland is unique in developing that approach to improving access to mental health services.
If I told members the results of those elections, they would be astonished.
I also thank you for coming this morning.
Yes, the rate for VAT has been raised by the UK Government.
They need to look after the people.
In the interests of the families, will she change her mind now.
The cost of collecting those charges will remain.
With him is Paul Doyle, who is deputy director of the devolved countries unit.
That is how things will work at a practical level.
That is what the UK Government has said that it wants to do.
That would benefit not just Edinburgh airport but Glasgow airport.
Reform is vital to ensure the long term sustainability of adult care in Scotland.
I have no problem with entering into correspondence to ensure that a statement is made.
That is done frequently throughout Scotland.
I thank the committee for inviting George Black and me to give evidence.
Let me pause here to reflect on the position of the UK in such negotiations.
We must press for an official parliamentary inquiry.
Europe must decide where it wants to go.
I will not say any more at the moment, convener.
Does the cabinet secretary agree that credit unions require additional assistance from the Scottish Government.
Although stop and search may be an operational matter, proper records should be maintained.
Do you believe that that is so.
The tax bills matter, not the tax levels.
The committees report is primarily about the workforce.
I find that an incredible statement.
The question was very hypothetical.
I am sure that, as always, COSLA will act in the interests of Scotland.
Is that John Farquhar Munros phone.
That is not the natural way to deal with democratic development.
On the encouragement of the Presiding Officer, there have been many loquacious contributions.
There is Novo Nordisk, and so on.
The Scottish Socialist Party wants to end all that.
It is an important tool, but it is sensitive.
That would be a requirement if we were to implement Ms Sturgeons suggestion.
The Scottish Conservatives recognise the enormous importance of the fish farming industry to Scotland.
I am pleased that we made progress on that.
Good Morning Scotland reported that some people in Wick were pulling out their own teeth.
Quite often, we have been later in going into and in coming out of recessions.
You have left that idea hanging.
Mr Sheridans policy memorandum for the bill also uses council tax band D.
That brings us to the end of questions for the first group of witnesses.
This issue is the biggest challenge that we face.
We have to consider how we would manage such fluctuations from a financial perspective.
Council tax is difficult to collect and is not based on the ability to pay.
Such growth is to be welcomed.
The Learning Disability Alliance Scotland provided us with illustrations for a previous debate as evidence.
However, that prospect holds no fears for me.
Does it use the Treasury model.
The tax system should be designed to improve productivity and the economy.
I agree with Mr Stewart about the three benefits.
We have to look at operating models.
I consider the tax base to be the units.
The corporate body will know that the Scottish Socialist Party group employs its staff collectively.
Therefore, the tax reliefs do not apply.
Deprivation can be both a cause and an effect of poor mental health.
If I may, I will mention council tax benefit, which is a key issue.
This is an important issue that must be dealt with.
Will you expand on your thoughts on that issue.
There seemed to be no justification for that.
My next point seems key, because you illustrated the issue with tables.
When Calman made that recommendation, the issue was already being considered by the European Commission.
With respect, I must come back to the point about the block grant.
That is exactly the position.
Transparency is not difficult  there are two things about it.
]The supplementary financial memorandum states Capital costs have not been explicitly estimated.
If the figures are correct, the result is positive.
It is difficult to get improvements absorbed down into an organisation.
You have put the questions that we posed back to us.
Iain Smith will have plenty of time.
Local government is funded, in the main, by progressive taxation.
The minimum wage is not.
The Executive should take a lead and Scottish businesses should see opportunities.
However, the hassle factor on the trains is putting me off.
Most decisions and votes in the Parliament will be taken along party political lines.
The first relates to the number of bands for council tax.
Land cannot be taken abroad and land value tax cannot be avoided.
To many people, including me, the concept of being online brings new opportunities.
I do not see how the system could work effectively without that.
Police centralisation is an example of when the Government should have left well alone.
It is quite difficult to achieve change in the UK Parliament through amending a bill.
That depends on how the money from the tax is used.
Richard Baker also suggested that this was privatisation.
I will declare interests in respect of some of the subjects that I shall discuss.
It is entirely up to you.
I hope that we will be able to make those decisions at our next meeting.
The aquaculture industry is important.
Jamie McGrigor has five minutes.
We also have to tackle the unfairness of the summary warrant.
Airport links have proven to be an effective method of dealing with land values.
I was trying to say that I do not define skills narrowly.
That was either the Pensions Policy Institute or the OECD head of pensions.
We want a Scotland that is wealthier and fairer.
In developing that guidance, we will deal with providers.
Of course there is that risk.
He goes on to dissect the ministers plans dispassionately and logically.
We have to ask what children need to develop.
I have interviewed consultants in Ireland, some of whom have come across to Scotland.
Different Parliaments are responsible for that legislation and there are complexities even within that.
Therefore, there is a greater need for some certainty about taxation and the regulatory environment.
Within that local service planning, primary care will have an absolutely vital role.
I ask members and the public to turn off all mobile phones and BlackBerrys.
I inform him that we are not the worst in the OECD in that respect.
We will agree our work priorities during that item.
I do not think that we need a wholesale inquiry.
I have had extensive discussions with the timber products sector, including the wood panel industry.
The facts do not support that assertion.
One gets such special factors.
I welcome what has been done at Ibrox, Celtic Park and Hampden.
Nobody likes paying tax, but people understand income tax.
I will give you my favourite example, which people laugh at.
It came about through practice and learning over time.
We will have a five minute suspension to allow for the changeover of witnesses.
Capital and revenue need to be considered together.
It has moved the agenda forward on business improvement districts.
We can also be proud that the bill will ensure the commissioners independence.
Under those circumstances, even Jack McConnell could not possibly vote for the EARL project.
I am sure that that will have happened.
It is possible to make the argument and many academic studies show different impacts.
Thank you for the invitation to be here this morning.
I will answer questions if I am asked the right ones.
I stress our desire to work with everyone who can contribute towards that end.
We are certainly in favour of it.
We must refrain from making comments of that nature.
Many people on low incomes have poorer health than people in wealthier households.
It is always the case that we must manage uncertainty.
No, I do not accept that concept at all.
As Councillor Edward rightly pointed out, what matters is what works at a local level.
Housing funding is now competitive, and rural housing associations cannot compete with their urban neighbours.
I shall expand on those efforts in the rest of my speech.
It is a major constitutional and fiscal change.
However, I again despair at the desperate negativity of the SNPs amendment.
It is very much like the new Labour model in England.
The minister was due to visit that dentist but she cancelled the visit.
You asked for short answers and I have given you one.
In fact, that probably reveals a value position about what is important in purposes.
It may be fair to you, cabinet secretary, but you have no time.
One is not to have a system of advance clearance at all.
Dental assistants could be recruited and trained locally, which would hugely improve retention rates.
The committee should consider further a number of issues relating to the subject.
Exactly the same as other members do.
That type of discussion would not have taken place before.
I am sure that that productive conversation will continue.
Owners of higher value land would pay more than owners of lower value land.
I hope that the BDA and the Executive will take that point on board.
That takes us into rather more tricky territory.
That is exactly why I asked the question.
I understand what Judith Gillespie is saying about physical education.
From what you said, no one has the evidence to do that.
Robin Harper raises a serious issue.
That is what I thought you said.
Richard Baker has a supplementary question.
Such people want to work, although they cannot do so at certain times.
I want to move on to a different and, in many respects, smaller issue.
I will mention a couple of wider issues.
That is the key difference.
There must be a package.
I thank David McNeish, Caroline Dunne and Jess Barrow for their evidence.
Their parents were phoned and they were taken home.
I assume that the forthcoming legislation will require pooled budgets to be set up.
Iain Smith has raised a serious point about such anomalies.
The engagement that we have had with Scottish Government officials has been helpful.
Other members, including Mark Griffin, asked about the speeds of next generation broadband.
We did so having inherited a crumbling prison estate.
We cannot get rid of one that we do not like and introduce another one.
I hope that those will be self explanatory as we go through.
The approach that we intend to take is as follows.
What would be a realistic timescale.
He is saying that the evidence is important.
The markets, marketing and image theme is important.
Those armed police will create a contingency resource that can be deployed across the UK.
If that proposition is accepted, we have a need to train those people.
That is what the committee is frustrated about.
The imbalance between central and local government means that local choice is severely restricted.
I turn to the second half of my amendment.
Trish Godman and her committee are to be commended for undertaking that work.
There is little to disagree with in those aims.
APD was established not as an environmental tax but for revenue raising purposes.
Perhaps he got a little carried away in his enthusiasm in his new post.
As someone who represents a constituency adjacent to Glasgow, however, some aspects concerned me.
You are right that it is, of course, an estimate.
That is all very helpful.
However, if Parliament legislates on the problem, we will comply.
I have two points to make about shared services.
As I rise, Presiding Officer.
You have not reached that stage yet.
I withdraw any suggestion that you will not come up with your own thoughts.
We are considerably behind the clock.
That also means making demands on the Commission.
Before I start, convener, I would be grateful if you would do me a favour.
Under the proposed system, you would have had extra resources that you did not expect.
Nevertheless, advances can be made from one scenario to another.
Do you really believe that that will be turned around if taxes are devolved.
I accept that all the residents of Lennoxtown welcome regeneration.
Would you remove that benefit.
That works well if you have spending responsibility combined with some revenue responsibility.
I am proud to be the person who is leading the legislation through Westminster.
That perception is widespread, because it is close to reality.
In the meantime, the Borders economy continues to decline.
We recognise that aviation must pay its way.
Conformity comes out of absolute requirements.
Alex Neil quoted Helena Kennedy.
Tommy, you will have the opportunity to give evidence to the committee next week.
Every head teacher involved in a partnership has commended the programme.
I would appreciate it if you could submit that to us in writing.
There is scope for examining whether accountability can be clarified in the grants system.
We now move to the closing speeches.
As John Scott said, Conservatives support calls for the development of such initiatives throughout Scotland.
Their effects would not be neutral.
It is a risk and constitutional attitudes survey.
The Greens will abstain in tonights vote.
I did not want to examine him any more closely.
I will not take any lectures from Tommy Sheridan on tackling poverty.
Only in terms of the overall impact on the Scottish economy.
I thank Professor McLean very much for his evidence.
Youngsters are short changed if they do not understand power complexes.
Would she care to reflect on that.
Of course, fish farming has some impact on wild Atlantic salmon and sea trout stocks.
Until one adds in all that, it is difficult to compare one tax with another.
Our estimate is six years.
I share the passion for Europe that Winnie Ewing, Irene Oldfather and others have described.
People were used to each other, so there was no problem.
How will future investment in renewables benefit Clydeside.
At the moment, my concern is that we do not have any credible numbers.
To ask the Scottish Executive how it will improve standards of discipline in schools.
Mr Clark mentioned HMRC, and Mr Thomson then said that it was a guddle.
My final point is on collection.
As he knows, the Cabinet Secretary for Justice is considering the issue that he raises.
The cost of compliance and of the difference is an issue.
What functions would remain with the councils.
Cyber attacks often focus on the weakest link in an organisation.
An element of hypocrisy is involved.
Minister, do you want to say something to introduce the draft order.
We always expected to have to do that for the Scottish variable rate.
The convener just referred to the OBR, which makes forecasts in the area.
Again, that is manifestly unfair.
At what point would that cease to be the case.
They said that they would never go back to the NHS.
I am sorry that Alex Neils memory has failed him in that regard.
The Tory amendment positively addresses some of the problems, particularly with respect to further education.
The NEET figures are very stark indeed and we must address them.
Even people in that example would pay less under the service tax.
The task of preparing the bill was not easy.
That element is not neutral through time.
It is important for the economy and the environment of our area.
In fact, some of the councils operate in exactly the same environment.
I am glad that the minister has taken the opportunity to clarify the situation.
They also want to see nutrition as part of the curriculum.
Perhaps Peter Kelly can tell me.
That takes me back to the common sense point.
It is that, rather than the notion that everything should be local, that concerns me.
If you just try to move capital around, that will not work.
At that time, there was no significant out migration, and people were not abandoning Quebec.
That is the right role for the Government in the process.
I was pleased about that.
Fergus Ewings contribution was entertaining.
The precise impact of the settlement will depend on the circumstances of individual fishermen.
That is the best way forward.
I presume that the matter can be sorted, through legislation or guidance.
We are talking only about the remainder.
The consultants have identified a large number of options for each airport.
I remind members that there is a coffee lounge at the back of the chamber.
Certain basics must be mastered, or nothing else is possible.
We know what the big changes were and what impact they had in schools.
I think that we get your point, Ms Eadie.
I went back and had a look at Scotland  A New Fiscal Settlement.
It is based on the ability to earn.
Frankly, some of those documents are impenetrable.
I am running out of time.
That meant that its recommendations went in the bucket.
Perhaps you can discuss those issues together.
One local authority proposed an independent body.
When I referred to hope, I meant hope about the attitude for discussion.
Tommy Sheridan, Sandra White and others raised concerns about the time scale.
Tommy Sheridan talked about millionaires in his opening speech.
We are told that that borrowing will be done through the non profit distributing model.
A lot of those countries are better off than us.
I am not aware of such discussions.
I invite Mary Scanlon to engage with us.
Let us hope that we are so lucky in the future.
The top line is IT.
The solution must come from internal change within Scotland.
I have listened to the recording and can say that the quote is accurate.
Sorry, convener, but I want to come back on something.
We must remember that income tax is supposed to be a tax on income.
That is not the same as saying that we do not support the bill.
Long before my involvement, powers were made available in respect of the Scottish variable rate.
That is the real terms age adjusted figure, which is an interesting concept.
Tesco has extremely large profits.
That is true of even the wicked ones.
If they are all delivered, they will make an important difference to people in Scotland.
Audit Scotland did a detailed audit of waiting lists in Scotland.
The blame should not rest solely on Governments, however.
I hope that it will choose to do so.
I have an example of that from my experience as a councillor in Aberdeen.
What is your thinking on that.
If we do not, we face potential catastrophe.
Will you explain why you have not presented your mechanism to do that.
He is very concerned about dentistry in the Western Isles.
No motions to annul have been lodged.
The salmon farming industry has had its highs and lows over the years.
However, that was not true.
It threatens to undermine the well supported legislation that we have passed.
Social work and education are crucial, but they cannot do this alone.
There is something wrong with the accounting somewhere.
It is not actually a huge cultural leap.
Is HMRC collecting the tax that it should be collecting.
The procedure will be as follows.
That is recognised in the council.
This is where we elected members face our biggest challenge.
However, we will not be able to solve all the problems overnight.
We need the Government to take a lead on that.
I was particularly pleased to hear her talk about giving people priority over organisations.
It worries me that the Government will not like to hear the message.
He and I go back a long way.
followed by	Ministerial Statement  Transport.
In the long term, it would not be optimal.
The next item is IT investment in revenue Scotland.
What impact will that have on accountability on the part of local government.
As you have been sitting in the gallery, you will know the drill.
Many people refer to PPP as the only game in town.
That is what has happened.
This is about the design of welfare.
Not using the powers would have a consequence.
The landfill tax liability could be paid at either point.
You as well, Mr Swinney.
Have a safe journey home.
We will not do that.
That is demonstrated once the construction phase of projects is completed.
I return to my original point in relation to Mr Brownlees comments.
That is an important distinction from the arrangements at Westminster.
That will be after the measures are implemented.
Almost one in three of our pensioners struggles to make ends meet.
As we are now exactly on schedule, speeches should be of the notified duration.
I call George Lyon to close for the Executive.
Obviously we should be taxing luxuries at a higher rate.
Ministers must stop playing at being politicians.
There is no denying that corporation tax is much more volatile than income tax.
Some years have elapsed since the commission reported.
Is there anything that you want to add, which has not come up in questions.
I am not prepared to leave the meeting to look at the website.
You can accept that if you want.
There is another thing that it might occur to you to do.
We are where we are.
There is tea and coffee in the corner and I am dying for a cup.
Of course, we live in a globalised economy.
That kind of situation would be extremely advantageous to our economy.
The other example is tax incremental funding.
Will he now admit that it is not working.
There might be many reasons for that.
All Governments try to increase participation.
I also want to set out three practical considerations that are worth bearing in mind.
Whitehall seems to be well aware that that issue is important.
Do what you like with it.
There is certainly a cost to it.
It is against that backdrop that we have embarked on this programme of reform.
It is an application for a housing development.
If that phone call is for me, tell them I am busy.
The same applies to the Glasgow airport rail link project, which should also have proceeded.
Village halls are a vital part of the infrastructure that supports rural communities throughout Scotland.
I was rather surprised to find that there was no SNP amendment to my motion.
I am sorry that you were kept waiting.
Age was the only qualification on that.
There is certainly no devolution in that regard.
For Scotland to get the corporation tax, surely the block will have to be reduced.
Let us fix that misery.
Robert Brown made an excellent speech.
That is clearly recognised across the board and the Executive is committed to it.
There have been other U turns.
It makes half of my questions redundant.
Thank you, Sir Kenneth, for coming along today.
The marine bill will enhance planning and sustainability in Scottish aquaculture.
Through the chair, then  why.
It will be green when we go live.
Similar arguments apply to value added tax.
An interim report was prepared and widely distributed.
I only wish to God that pensions had risen by a commensurate amount.
Both areas are wrapped up together.
I want to highlight three of them.
Nonetheless, they are important attributes in any tax system.
We are working closely with the Scottish Government on the adjustment to the block grant.
I am interested to know how the minister will build those houses.
I, too, congratulate Jim Hume on securing this debate.
I was going to make that point.
Here is how I would avoid the tax in total and pay not a penny.
I want to ask specifically about whisky.
We will continue that conversation with you as our thinking develops.
To my knowledge, there is no such country.
Are you concerned that no amendments have come so far from the UK Government.
We would be happy if she would respond.
Robert Brown is correct in saying that we have tried to get the right balance.
That would be good not only for the wider economy but for themselves as individuals.
John Young seems unduly worried about my constituency boundaries.
In the short term, local government would not necessarily have sufficient funds to do that.
Can you explain that statement.
The incentives in the arrangement are all wrong.
I have also announced further measures to support NHS dental services.
I felt that my questions were relevant in that sense.
The situation is especially difficult for people who live in places such as Kinloch Rannoch.
This is not an abstract discussion.
Therefore, Scotland will continue to be very dependent on air travel.
The cabinet secretary cited the example of a railway project in Scotland being accelerated.
For Christians, praying for those who are in authority must always come first.
Is the level of capital expenditure increasing or are you managing to keep pace.
In some ways, we are obviously not getting the full potential from council tax.
Could equalisation be achieved without full scale pooling If not, why not.
It was intended that there would be matching commitments.
We will continue to operate on that basis.
However, there may be a need to invest to save.
Is not that the case.
We recognise that local taxation is a big area.
Thirdly, one could reduce gearing by looking for other local taxes.
That is the sort of threat that has been made to us.
The question is slightly dangerous.
I would have no problem with our asking the Procedures Committee to consider the issue.
Who decided what a reasonable amount was.
Forgive me for interrupting, but does that overcome the perverse incentives.
If we cannot do so, neither can the UK Government.
Its provisions specifically do not apply to wines and spirits.
Mr Troup has mentioned them both at different points.
I suppose that that is one of the disadvantages of being a democracy.
That is something that you would look at down the line.
Come to a question, please.
I congratulate Lord James Douglas Hamilton on securing the debate.
Yes, but it is an easily resolvable problem, because relative demographics move significantly but slowly.
We expect member states to carry all the weight of funding and implementing the policies.
That is not what I have said.
That would not be a recommendation for future accounting purposes.
I am sure that Margaret Curran will discuss those matters with the Parliament in future.
I welcome the various initiatives and investments that the minister has announced.
Many members, including Dennis Robertson and Mark McDonald, have referred to good local examples.
A great deal of disappointment is increasingly being expressed over what international talks can achieve.
I congratulate Andrew Arbuckle on securing the debate.
That does not include our investment in young people.
That will require a co ordinated, carefully planned and innovative approach.
Now, Stansted airport almost has more passengers than Edinburgh and Glasgow airports put together.
I hope that councillors in another place will take those implications into account.
That interpretation considers that those societies were historically very equal.
I am pleased to hear that the minister is working with Norway on that.
Any sensible Government will consider the broader picture and take decisions to optimise things.
I was going to ask a question on school closure.
I am sure that there is a consensus on that.
I am happy to take interventions but, failing that, I will continue.
The other important document is Sustainable Seas for All.
Today, we will look at issues that relate to the oil and gas sector.
All the pressures add up and can engulf people who suffer from mental health issues.
We have increased our support for Gaelic medium education throughout Scotland.
We have already met the Department for Work and Pensions.
However, I recognise that changing that legislation might not be politically possible.
I am sure that there is an exact parallel in Holyrood.
Heathrow has the Paddington link and Manchester and Birmingham each have a rail link.
Perhaps that means that there is not enough wealth.
Some of those barriers might be physical, but some are attitudinal.
Some of these are certainly legal.
Mark McDonald referred to the level of concern.
That is why we want fair taxation.
I ask Ben Thomson whether anyone argues that the fewer levers we have the better.
Your paper suggests that what matters is share of expenditure.
We should avoid some taxes like the plague.
Presiding Officer, thank you for inviting me to lead these reflections.
That deals with the argument about fairness.
My areas of questioning are pretty straightforward.
More age related relief could be allocated to them.
However, as a parliamentarian and a citizen, I think that I must and we must.
You will have to be brief, Mr Ballard.
I want to highlight a few issues that need to be addressed.
I would like to highlight two final issues.
There are interesting aspects of their evidence that look to the future.
Our expectation is that a consultation document will be launched next month.
Therefore, we must be sure that we get it right.
That number will surely only continue to grow.
However, you must see where I am coming from.
I will be delighted to do so.
That would not change things.
]Sorry, I am having some difficulty due to the noise outside.
That is not always easy.
Work is being done in those areas in schools and in education research.
However, there is an issue about how the Treasury might feel about such a change.
Anything that seeks to end such discrimination against young people is welcome.
That would be the big risk.
We should help people to work out their finances and make things easier for them.
No doubt the partners in the now dissolved partnership had different expectations about the outcome.
That is why we do it in the way that we do it.
The shift must come from the top.
The feature is a general one.
I am sure that our next meeting will be just as worth while.
The council tax freeze is causing most councils considerable difficulties.
That was a useful piece of information to give us.
We can narrow that down a little bit.
I know what you mean.
The renewables sector, among others, employs similar measures.
There is plenty of anecdotal evidence.
We will move on to capital borrowing.
I have another question specifically for Age Concern.
I do not think that it did so at the time.
It is easy to do it in the short term from a command level.
Our universal credit proposals go a long way to addressing that.
Our interests are as providers and consumers of services.
You are here to speak to the petition.
I realise that that is the case.
The Tayside project has been established to address specific problems.
Do you see what I mean.
Yes, of course it is whisky.
The issue has been gone into in detail.
Timing therefore needs to be tight in the next debate.
With respect, I am not going to stand by or deny a paper.
Deciding precisely how that is done would require discussion and negotiation.
You asked about the level of corporation tax.
Perhaps the Government fears more control being given to the local level.
This is rather a general question.
I do not know how to help you.
We must keep a close eye on resources for social workers and other key professionals.
At our previous meeting, I made clear that I would not agree to that.
It is to correct an inaccuracy.
When it arrives, I will read carefully his comments and any evidence he has attached.
However, the bill does not provide for that.
I have just started, so I will make some progress first.
Central Government does not care much about how much is spent on other services.
I criticise the raid on pensions.
We would end up with a very messy system of local finance.
Both are big systems, but they are existing systems.
It is, however, important that the petition is concluded and dealt with.
If the start is manageable and works well, then Scotland can have more autonomy.
It is about getting legislation that encompasses those principles, gives certainty and is easily understandable.
 However, there is no magic left in that trick.
That is an interesting point for Mr Wallace to clarify.
Those are the sort of drivers that I consider to be relevant to Scottish growth.
It is important that we address the problem of decline.
I sincerely hope that you agree that they have a great deal of knowledge.
Dennis Canavan referred to that last Tuesday.
We would want to ensure that the problem of turbulence was recognised.
I, for one, do not want to be a part of that situation.
My last point is about the translation budget.
Scotland brings vast resources and vast opportunities to the European table.
Tommy, perhaps we could explore that when you give your evidence.
It continues Much of these nutrients … should be readily taken up by macroalgae.
Finding a solution will take time however much money is thrown at the problem.
Of course, as in so many things, Mr Fraser is quite wrong.
I teased him by suggesting that he might be willing to consider a rewrite.
At the same time, it is getting harder to do that.
However, we have arrived and I am sure that the debate will be stimulating.
Andrew Arbuckle has a question.
We now need to take management in local government seriously.
It looks as if that should be pretty much complete.
Has there been any assessment of the impact of the budget on those areas.
It is ludicrous for the committee to suggest that it be considered.
I thank the minister for his efforts at the fisheries council.
Cathy Peattie has lodged a motion that highlights the issue that the petition raises.
The question that you have focused on is whether corporation tax will do that.
I do not think that the argument needs to be advanced much further.
I welcome members, witnesses and guests in the public gallery.
One way or another, she is wrong.
I am not aware of any change in the rules whatsoever.
I was going to come on to the aggregates levy.
We know that many youngsters are disengaged from academic study in schools throughout Scotland.
That is the extra cost.
However, the targets are only part of the picture.
It also includes police costs, and Glasgows share of those costs is higher than average.
I agree with Mary Mulligan on that.
I have no doubt that it will be debated again.
I thank members who stayed to contribute to the debate.
The cost of implementing a strategy is of more concern.
I am grateful to all members who participated.
Reform would have different impacts on different income groups in society.
I have a further question in relation to the bills legislative competence.
We seem to be staying quite close to the tradition of confidentiality and privacy.
I suspend briefly for a changeover of panels.
There is probably a need to consider the matter again today.
Is that not the case.
In the current climate we see devastating cuts to local government budgets.
That is a perfectly proper thing for the Bank of England to do.
As Liam Kerr said, we need to address that.
We therefore hope for evidence of a change in the process for marketing shellfish.
We would consider less than a quarter of those additional rate tax revenues, for example.
We have been wondering where a local income tax would sit.
That was how it operated.
To that end, grant funding programmes are available throughout Europe.
We are still waiting for an announcement on that matter from the Executive.
Thank you for that response.
That could affect our children and our children's children.
We prepared our evidence for the committee today in that light.
They would be somewhere around the devo more and devo plus area.
The private sector does not get it right all the time.
The bill would require the Scottish Executive to distribute the resources on an agreed formula.
We disagreed with that costing.
It is difficult to calibrate that at the moment.
I thank the minister for that interesting and useful reply.
The bill would never have seen the light of day at Westminster.
The initiative provides social workers, housing support and other agencies to help people with cancer.
The Executive recognises the important role played by Scottish Water in economic and other development.
The initiative will provide positive assistance to people at the end of their lives.
All it shows, however, is that compassion is not a substitute for justice.
We do not know how lucky we are.
Proper, balanced meals will benefit every school child.
We will engage with other member states.
But you accept that that particular point is covered in the financial memorandum.
As you would probably expect, we discussed that with the assessors.
I cannot guarantee that someone will not get through the net.
We move to questions from back bench members.
Do you have any other points.
It is as much a cultural issue as what we have talked about.
Front line services need not be affected, but radical changes behind the scenes are required.
If you have other questions, leave them for later.
I do not want to bring this to an end.
Similar schemes are proving to be successful around Scotland.
There is a fatal flaw  we are running a branch economy.
I would like to hear the arguments in the debate within a task force context.
Nobody is suggesting that we should be part of a British football team.
That does not represent local design or local freedom.
Jean Urquhart makes a good point.
Let us examine the effect of the Executives management of the economic and skills agenda.
I think that other witnesses have made the same point.
There has been a steady rise in VAT.
I suspend the meeting for five minutes.
You said that revenue Scotland could act with greater rigour than HMRC does.
I confirm that we will arrive at firm conclusions over the next few months.
I am not privy to the detailed assumptions, but I take them at face value.
The next item is consideration of two Parliamentary Bureau motions.
That is a big gap and it needs to be addressed.
Shellfish farming lends itself to small operations, which we need to encourage.
It is a matter of prioritisation.
Thirdly, the Parliament now has tax varying powers.
That improvement in the involvement of parents with their children is remarkable.
It is really important, convener.
COSLA cannot dictate what basis of funding should be implemented at a local level.
I thank her for those comments.
Thank you, but I am worried that you might break your microphone.
Will Bristow Muldoon give way.
I did not think that I would get away with that one unchallenged.
We did so for good reason.
John Mason will come in next.
That must damage those children.
We also look at the higher risk taxpayers in terms of size and type.
I am not an apologist for the BDA, but the organisation makes important points.
Does the Government have a view on that suggestion.
That fact thunders through the report.
Down south, the Labour Land Campaign argues quietly for the policy.
Drew Edward will make introductory comments on capital.
That is all that we are pointing out.
That will involve reducing relative pay and numbers in some areas.
There are other issues for society that are not about poverty.
All I can say is that we have shared our working and calculations with COSLA.
I therefore urge the Executive and the Parliament to reject the terms of the motion.
John Mason can round up on income tax.
In our consideration of those six proposals, that is exactly what we are doing.
I am happy to receive comments on what I am proposing.
Thank you very much for your written submission.
It is perhaps an attitude problem.
Assignment of VAT receipts, if that is done, can be done relatively quickly.
That trend will continue in the future.
It could even ignore it.
Scotland has a tremendously important aquaculture industry.
It was the oversight and the regulation that did it.
Attitudes have to change, too.
An information notice would not bite in that regard.
The council tax, as we said, is regressive.
The conditions on the west coast are even more challenging.
I will say a little more on immigration.
I hope that that phrase was not too indiscreet, Presiding Officer.
Half the projects have no funding mechanism.
You could therefore suggest that there is a beneficial impact on local economies.
It will also include recommendations about funding and procurement options.
I am sorry to interrupt but could you just clarify the question for me.
The Scottish Government is in regular contact with Highland Council on a range of issues.
It is fairness that concerns me, to be honest.
Finally, we must not forget that the bill has another important purpose.
My final question is on corporation tax, which we were discussing earlier this morning.
We will have a relatively large sum available for capital expenditure via borrowing.
First, he will give a presentation and then we will ask questions.
We suggest that that move would build in some accountability.
It takes us back to a comment made earlier about the role of politicians.
It was also in the Daily Telegraph.
The whole area merits urgent review.
I will deal first with the Labour amendment.
It is a political will question.
We need to look at all that.
I do not have time to address all the issues that Mr Smith raised.
Maybe I could better it.
You are inviting me to respond to a hypothetical.
I have just a quick one in answer to your first question.
Perhaps someone could pick up on that.
My questions are specifically directed at management.
All the parties have restated their positions on the matter.
However, children in the Borders have the lowest number of filled, missing or decayed teeth.
In our view, the risk was greater than the opportunity.
It has had remarkable development, even though the tax rate has been uniform.
We believe that the distribution system is in need of review.
Those are facts, and facts are chiels that winna ding.
The light on my microphone was flashing.
There is no doubt that the discussion around corporation tax has developed.
We are going round the houses quite a lot here.
When they dive back in, they will perhaps do things differently.
That is a decision for the Parliamentary Bureau.
It is a bit of a reckless approach to legislation.
It has achieved the highest status.
We considered all the evidence.
 The approach enables a wider cross Government decision to be made.
Excuse me, but I am afraid that the Scottish Government has actually made that assertion.
Work might reduce the risk of being in poverty, but it does not eliminate it.
The policy objective is to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill.
The position regarding compliance costs for small firms is changing all the time.
Vote for the bill tonight.
That is what we have tried to concentrate on.
You never really know where you will be.
As I have just indicated, they proposed a national framework and national standards.
The issue is a major problem and will cause difficulties for all parties.
The renewed framework will highlight skills issues.
Some local councils are debating that controversial subject.
The question concerned physical education and health.
To start with, we would be exactly the same.
I would like clarification on that.
You mentioned COSLAs task group.
There were real choices on the level of service and the level of local taxation.
The example is meant to cover all possible incomes for a single earner household.
Harbours were improved, some telecommunications were introduced, and many community developments became a reality.
We have to deal with the question that we are being asked.
I think that the issue is more fundamental than that.
That is creating difficulties for the future of many community and village halls.
Broadly speaking, those moneys just come in.
They are relatively quick steps.
Sadly, that assurance has not been honoured.
Through building the role of a research co ordinator, we would scrutinise the Executive.
With all respect, we will not accept lectures on that topic from the Labour Party.
But that has been considered over a long period of time.
We intend to monitor the situation because all the issues are interlinked.
I am here as a committee substitute, representing the Labour party.
Guidance will be read and understood by tax professionals.
Mr Whiting gave evidence on it.
Fundamental principles must be developed.
The witnesses have listened to Professor Midwinters evidence, so they know the procedure.
I believe that that was picked up by other speakers.
Boards that have not yet met waiting time targets will be supported to do so.
We could not do it.
I think that it is a wonderful and very original idea.
Will members take their seats, please.
I am happy to support the amendment in Nicol Stephens name.
Consultation will be an important part of taking the project forward.
I invite the Auditor General to brief the committee.
developed countries appears to lead to systematically increased growth rates.
I have put that in my paper.
We tend to buy into the rest of the Scottish curriculum.
Surely we have in practice already had that arrangement in Scotland.
Actually buying their products would have a far greater impact.
That is exactly where I wanted to go.
Ring fencing of funding erodes the financial responsibility and freedom of local authorities.
You mention uncertainty and instability.
Of course, that cannot be achieved overnight.
I think that it can be made to work either way.
Do you know of any other countries that use the GGFD What are its advantages.
Much effort, time and commitment has gone into reviewing the GAE, but to little effect.
We can include that in the letter that we send to Historic Scotland.
We could have done it the other way round.
 It is less problematic if there is an agreed needs based mechanism in place.
You might wish to get a copy of that should independence arrive.
To ask the First Minister what action is being taken to address violent knife culture.
Points were made about having an effective and streamlined regulatory environment.
Direct action, non payment and even riots signalled peoples anger.
Yes, but do you have a question, Ms Ewing.
Those discussions will continue, although they are on hold at the moment.
We have almost none of that now.
I commend such a strategy to members.
With the new rolling stock coming in there is a fantastic opportunity to do that.
We are all working together for as good a tax regime as we can get.
The Executives approach to the future of Europe debate is based on five key elements.
Motion, as amended, agreed to.
Our opposition is about further increases in the quantum.
Historically, the Scottish economy has not always followed the UK economy.
Will you say a little more about that.
We are all excited and enthused when a Scottish team competes on the international stage.
Unfortunately, that is not the only issue that we will have to address.
We have to be sure that we can address that.
What is more important, however, is that we are talking pessimistically about borrowing.
As has already been mentioned, the Scottish service tax has been debated several tines.
On my second point, why do you think that LVT would generate fewer appeals.
That will affect exploration in particular because mobile rigs are used for exploration.
Thank you for your time and your presentation, which was useful.
 We should bear in mind that it is a levy and not a tax.
I call Mike Rumbles to speak to and move the motion.
I have not seen any paper that answers these questions.
We do not have such a system.
If you have those things, businesses will come to your country or your region.
However, rectifying that would be a substantial piece of work.
Whether the suggestion is a vote winner is for political parties to determine.
There is still concern in the committee about how we proactively disseminate information.
That was particularly the case where voluntary and private sector businesses were involved.
Therefore, we have established a situation in which there can be and must be review.
We will address those issues during our scrutiny of the bill.
The SNP now holds high office and should act accordingly.
It will be an important contribution to this debate.
You said that you are considering three different models of collecting tax.
We have read your paper and we have some questions to ask.
I would like that to be clarified.
I have to be honest.
Can we have an honest statement about this important project from someone in the Government.
We are talking about fairness.
I am interested in the logic behind the hotel tax to which you referred.
The strategy aims to improve the lives of people with autism.
We will see who says one thing before elections and does the opposite after them.
They will need to be more free thinking.
Alex Neil makes a good point.
We would have to look at the issue and see whether a problem would arise.
In particular, members of new Labour will have failed the city of Glasgow.
Since the formation of Police Scotland, the increase has been extended outwith Strathclyde.
I accept that important educational provision issues arise.
I thank the cabinet secretary for her speech and welcome the measures that she outlined.
In Scotland, we must improve at every level.
I look forward very much to seeing that report.
We can agree about much of what has been said in the debate.
We have a variety of professions.
Do you mind if I open the discussion to questions.
It is brave, shall we say.
At present, the situation with exemptions is not clear.
It is not necessarily the end of the process.
It was not a revelation at all.
 That is exactly what is on offer to us.
I think I know roughly what you meant.
I have no view on that.
The factor that you mention would need to be put into that same mechanism.
That is not routine, but has it been looked at.
Excuse my frustration, but we have been here before.
Getting the definition of a Scottish taxpayer crystal clear is an essential building block.
The credit crunch is affecting our European neighbours, as it is us.
You touched on some of the proposed changes in your answer to Ms Johnstone.
That is why I am amazed that the SNP gives the proposals so much time.
I am sure that that is the only way to progress to a great extent.
I do not want to self advertise at this late stage in the day, though.
I received representations from the trade unions about the position of their members.
It is important to remember that.
We are happy to engage with that.
There is the compliance cost that we have talked about.
You are saying, though, that some of that is still being worked through.
We must work within the rules that are available to us.
That was the point that I was trying to make earlier.
However, we also need to take practical steps to address those issues.
It would have been great if you had mentioned that and then qualified it.
It does that against the backdrop of substantially increasing resources for further education.
It is a pleasure to be here once again.
Not least among the provisions are those that will provide security of tenure.
It takes no account of disability, as council tax does.
One of the points about the paper is that it is not about action tomorrow.
There is the report stage in the Lords in April.
We should be aware of some of the background to todays debate.
I presume that he was not referring to the socialists service tax.
I am aware that time is getting on.
I thank Mr Swinney for that intervention, which highlights why we oppose the bill.
However, I want to give Mr Scott the chance to give us his initial response.
We will estimate that at the one year point.
VAT receipts are a useful source of income.
The case for the rail link has been made and is indisputable and overwhelming.
I am pleased to report that the first meeting was successful and productive.
That is clear under our existing policy and in the renewed framework.
That is the point that I made earlier  the answers certainly did not satisfy me.
That is why the cinema and theatre initiative is such a laudable step forward.
Whether the council tax is easy to understand depends on where one is standing.
The council tax is not related to peoples ability to pay.
The rise in the manpower graph for local authorities has just carried on and on.
That is one reason why we made the proposal.
Mike Rumbles eloquently and fully set out the details of the bill.
There has been a change of name.
The statisticians realised that that was absurd.
As I said earlier, it is a bit like taxing whisky and not gin.
You have not seriously considered my proposal.
I would like you to consider whether this scenario is fairer, Professor Bell.
I rather remember what people said about tuition fees in England before the last election.
The Scottish Executive has access to a Treasury model that does a similar task.
As all of us are.
This has been a good debate.
We cannot fail those children.
What is your current thinking on the issue.
However, that is no longer the case in Quebec.
Consent must underpin both an opt out system and an opt in system.
I am happy to write to the committee with further detail to substantiate my answer.
Not one teacher, constituent or pupil has complained about a public private partnership.
Dr Reid has always been known for entrepreneurial spirit.
It has long been ahead of the system in England.
I will not go into that case because it is personal.
I spoke about all those in my evidence.
I welcome to the meeting Professor John Kay.
I say first that I welcome the endorsement that Rhona Brankin has given our approach.
I address my points to Margaret and Jim Cuthbert.
However, there was no chance that I would have considered cycling all the way back.
That also allows more standing space in peak service trains.
Ill informed statements have been made about council tax collection in Glasgow.
That is a credit to the organisers.
Even in Scotland, it is possible that a different party might be in power.
Unitary rules Well, as I am the academic, I can deal with that.
Mr Swinney cannot substantiate his point.
We did not say that.
I agree that the bill as drafted is not capable of achieving its aims.
It is virtually full and has proved to be a great success.
Just as important, we as individuals must take on responsibility.
However, other countries do not have that situation.
I could have done a lot more.
The debate is worth while and has to be heard.
Thank you for that detailed explanation.
My understanding is that it is not a blanket provision.
That is the assessment that we make of all local income tax measures.
You need to know the limits.
I do not claim to be a seer.
I am happy to provide the committee with the figures.
Many authorities are responding positively to that challenge.
It is of course a debate in which both witnesses have been willing participants.
I am confident that we will win support for our proposal.
I am happy to look sympathetically at any applications from areas that are under pressure.
There should be no fashionable cynicism or voter laziness.
I fear that John Swinney might be among them.
The growth in economic activity was reflected in better jobs and better pay.
Is that still your position We have heard something different today.
The prior task is to establish who the Scottish taxpayer is.
I will try not to be too repetitive.
We are part of the UK, which is a key and powerful member state.
Margaret McDougall has a brief supplementary question.
My other question concerns people who have multiple debts and who are in serious difficulty.
I am happy to talk about that any time.
It is for the second reason.
That makes a lot of sense.
There needs to be a mechanism for triggering our consideration.
Yes, that is particularly true for low income people.
Moray is well placed to take that forward.
That is our current estimate.
You must finish now, Mr Arbuckle.
The funding is fully in place to fund all the extra teachers.
I am asking whether the minister agrees with these points.
However, the fact is that the report that has triggered the debate talks about seven.
I am sure that they would not.
Alex Neil knows that that is a false division.
However, the general principle of returning business rates to local control should be adopted.
As an association, we do not support or oppose minimum unit pricing.
That comes through clearly in the bill.
There is another principle, which has always struck me as being the height of absurdity.
For a council, that immediate need would be education, social work and roads and transportation.
I congratulate Andrew Welsh and thank him for introducing this issue for discussion.
There is a case for regular updates.
It is more for future reference.
He said I used the example of incorporation.
As well as talking about how to drive change, we are talking about local democracy.
French and German are the languages that are most required by Scottish business.
I am not sure how long we have got.
My answers to your first two questions are yes and yes.
That would be a business tax that would be substantially exported.
The council tax is a Tory tax.
Will the First Minister stop delaying and announce today that he will go ahead.
I am glad to hear you acknowledge the role of this Parliament in that process.
I was working in my office and was unaware that the previous debate finished early.
I have not addressed that issue.
I welcome the news of further intervention by another crucial organisation.
We have appointed a management team and we have a shadow board.
Surely we can all do better than that.
Raising income through tax in the world that we now live in is difficult.
I do not know what.
Sorry, are you going on to a new point, Jamie.
Conversely, if more money is raised, the aggregate external finance could be reduced.
The member makes a fair point.
We do not have much of that in our current system.
Good oral health is important in the prevention and management of oral cancer.
It is fair to say that debating aquaculture is not new to the Parliament.
This is probably a statement of the obvious.
The health agenda provides a good recent example of that.
That is precisely the point and the broad drift of what we are saying.
That is what my generation is all about.
That is why I say that you need to have a focus on both parts.
In Denmark, people can defer as much or as little as they like.
Our relationships with businesses are pretty good.
As ever, Mr Sheridan has been consistent, unlike the Liberal Democrats and the SNP.
For us, the debate is about how the powers over taxes would be used.
What is your view of those alternatives.
The route that we are mapping out is a pragmatic view.
That is one of the ways in which we will tackle the shortages.
We decided not to recommend devolving corporation tax at that point.
We are talking about the additional money that flows from an investment.
We are losing skills in those trades.
That depends on their having more decision making power over their expenditure.
Such an approach introduces further instability into local authorities budgets and is undesirable.
He really needs his memory jogged.
I am simply flagging up the issue.
It provides an opportunity for debate.
I mentioned young people earlier.
We said that good criteria for taxation are simplicity, stability, neutrality and flexibility.
How much responsibility will the lever provide.
There are important issues about what has been proposed, as far as we understand it.
I am keen that Government should play a supportive role, rather than rushing to legislate.
That is not a small cut.
There is, however, a mechanism for the block grant.
The Scottish Government is deploying significant effort to increase employment opportunities during these challenging times.
This is the start of a process.
The Government is carefully considering public procurement.
I confirm that the revision allows for a statement on Remploy on Tuesday.
Thank you for your evidence.
The approach that the bill proposes would be expensive and bureaucratic.
First, the sobering reality is that simply not enough new houses are being built.
Will you outline some of the ways in which councils are doing that.
The cost of using private providers is reducing.
It also benefits from worldwide protection through the World Trade Organisation.
I have many things written down on the pages before me.
However, people might feel that such an approach would remove local democracy.
For me, that is symbolic of the issue that we have in this area.
I echo the sentiments that the minister expressed.
As the report says, radical changes are necessary.
It is the idea of sovereignty being pooled.
At some point, the parties will decide that it is appropriate to recommence campaigning.
Inward investment decisions must be considered as buying decisions.
I remind Ms Sturgeon of the facts about the health service here in Scotland.
Mr Glen says that the UK tax regime is helping investment.
The Executive amendment talks about record levels of finance provided to local government.
Even so, the tripartite working group structure is designed to assist in those circumstances.
The bill is likely to include provisions relevant to the issue that we are discussing.
Of course, we must consider other issues.
As always, ministers are closely in touch on those matters.
I have not followed the subsequent discussion in any detail.
However, as I say, I think that what we have set out is perfectly reasonable.
We should always consider information, analyses and evidence and see what is justified.
Bill Aitken said that he speaks more in sorrow than in anger.
Some countries have made much more progress on that.
I hope that that will be acted on.
In a small way I can testify to that.
It will be a thorough, relentless and systematic campaign.
The people of Scotland demonstrated in the election which party they trust.
No Westminster bill had previously been examined in such depth by the Scottish Parliament.
It takes no account of responsibilities for children, as council tax does.
Nanette Milne raised concerns around delayed discharges.
I want to move on to PFI.
What would those cuts mean for the Scottish budget.
Cognisance must be taken of that.
The point about volatility is entirely fair.
There is no single solution.
 The Treasury might then come back with another forecast.
If the man had still been in jail, he would not have needed any monitoring.
Co development of a constitution would be the key to continuing success.
The Inland Revenue was asked.
We are close to another unanswered question.
Politics is always about choices, more so than ever in hard economic times.
We are getting into a circular argument here.
I would expect some of the taxes to come back before other taxes.
Will the First Minister consider the adoption of that eminently sensible policy.
We are aware of the differences.
I have gone into that issue recently.
Today is not about more disgraceful council tax rises and consequent condemnation.
It was quite a relief to have his support, although that was an unusual event.
That seems to suggest that people view independence as an opportunity rather than a risk.
One thing is certain  looked after children are vulnerable.
Edinburgh does not face that issue.
I apologise if that requires the witnesses to scribble down notes.
That is a call for an independent examination of the issue.
It is good to have you here, professor.
We have not examined the first point, which involves an inherently sterile argument.
Legislation alone will not change that.
However, I am afraid that I am sceptical about that.
Does that not indicate something.
There needs to be scope for manoeuvre.
He may well be right about that.
We are showing the best commitment that we can to that objective.
We put a lot of emphasis on that in the Mirrlees review of taxation, too.
The motion is easy to support.
Our initiatives free up resources.
It is a question of degree.
The Scottish Parliament has no right to resist that.
If you are looking for numbers to substantiate that, I can obtain them.
We all accept that oil revenues are pretty volatile.
I will be absolutely frank with the member.
Can you give us an illustration or two of that.
That is how we get a debt problem, and we fund it by borrowing.
So that is the difference.
An element of luck is involved.
I had hoped that that would have been clear from my opening remarks.
The issue is the extent to which the position would change.
I thank the Local Government Committee for using me in the current year.
The Scottish Executive should be questioned further on that point.
That is the margin we are discussing.
There are things in the system that give local government flexibility.
One way out of that is simply to keep on raising the Scottish rate.
I take as my example issues with stamp duty land tax.
I, too, congratulate Sandra White on securing the debate.
It could be said that all forms of taxation offer disincentives to work.
That means doing so where there is reasonable and sustainable demand for provision.
We must examine how that model would work in rural areas.
That would encourage a shift from the private car.
That is obviously part of the SNPs repositioning to the bottom of the polls.
UK Governments have consistently failed to do that.
We know that certain things react to public opinion.
That is a good question, but the situations are not comparable.
That is probably all that I need to say just now by way of update.
I think that it would be better to keep the theme going.
Both sets of skills are essential.
Is that the policy intention.
However, we can always trust Alex Neil.
Council tax is not reserved.
We have tried to improve the data so that they are fairly robust.
You referred to a reasonable amount.
We should thank those families for that.
Determined to Succeed  Enterprise in Education is an important initiative that will bring significant benefits.
That would be a helpful thing to do.
If nobody understands the rules of the game, people will become nervous.
The language is in a dangerous state, but it is also in a hopeful state.
If Mike Russell wants to be party to an inaccurate committee report, I am happy.
Some bureaucrats prefer to focus on packages rather than on outcomes.
It is certainly the right approach.
We should not become preoccupied with the impact of the recession.
An Executive note accompanies the regulations, as does a committee covering note.
It has gone on too long, and we are all part of it.
Devolving powers is a bit like giving somebody a puppy for Christmas.
Does that fit into the picture somewhere.
Are members agreed that we proceed on the basis of that adviceMembers indicated agreement.
I welcome our third panel of witnesses.
When I can, I will.
The road will not be completed, however, for about seven years.
I will have a shot at that.
In general, therefore, the Scotland Bill is a good thing, in principle.
I simply wish to record that as my view.
People in areas of deprivation are more likely to experience mental illness.
I understand that Scottish Water has already been in dialogue with Highland Council.
Now, at last, we have a Government for all parts of Scotland.
Gaelic medium education is also affected by wider policies in education.
I am afraid that I need to close.
The minister must focus her priorities on persuading dentists to stay within the NHS.
Goodness knows, that is difficult.
We need to monitor the Executives research, especially in areas of environmental concern.
It would be inappropriate for me to comment any further on the matter.
That is a fair question.
The manner in which we engage is very important indeed.
I, for one, do not want that to happen.
In future, the environment for carers will become more challenging.
To ask the Scottish Executive what progress is being made in increasing pupil attainment.
It is also correct that other committees should be invited to participate in that debate.
I am quite happy to.
That is not new, because it is true of the social fund at the moment.
It should put local communities in charge of their revenue and business.
That said, my view and the view of the Scottish Government has never wavered.
It is such a hot potato that no one wants to contemplate it.
The committees inquiry uses a different style from the national debate, which is more pragmatic.
The reference is given in that paper.
It is very different, because expenditure assessment is the simplest conceivable grant system.
I hear Jackie Baillie saying, Just like you.
We come now to closing speeches.
What the convener just said covers the area in which I am interested.
It is always a pleasure to follow my good friend Mary Scanlon.
Nobody has shown how much local election results are distorted.
People need to have training to understand and appreciate the impact of Edwards syndrome.
There have been big changes.
No, those are not my bids.
Have you examined any other models.
That is why we need the bill.
We need immigration, but it need not be high.
I was interested in the committees ideas on local government finance.
Foster parents do a terrific job, as Karen Whitefield said.
If the convention is to be manageable, it must be of a reasonable size.
Okay, we will agree to disagree.
I am sure that Aberdeen will be a better place for it.
Those odours directly affect us.
Despite the fact that there have been huge changes, the Barnett formula just goes on.
They are both very good and much better than the old traditional ways.
Perhaps I have missed that analysis  where is it.
It is a matter of developing and promoting.
I have forgotten the exact wording, which is quite a lot weaker.
It specialises in clients who have Parkinsons and treats them clinically and holistically.
It is a model that is well established in wider thinking about the Scottish economy.
Dont give local authorities the money that they need to meet their expenses.
I have a final question on downsizing.
I want to get into the detail of the bill.
I am just about to address the points that Margo MacDonald made.
Mr Scott cannot answer those questions.
Welcome to the committee, Professor Stoker.
I much appreciate the fact that some of you have travelled long distances.
What are the private sector landlord organisations saying.
We have had assurances that that is the case.
I have to say that the guards are very helpful, though.
That is something that needs to be revised.
I will suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
That must be the case at every level of the pyramid or triangle.
Automatic reappointment would be a total absurdity.
We will get full reports from every council.
I am keen to move on to corporation tax.
We therefore have a low ratio of complaints.
My point is that we could say the same thing about the Scottish Parliament.
The impact of reduced lottery funding for grass roots sport will be considerable.
That is not a straightforward matter for local authorities or the state.
That is clear Liberal Democrat policy.
I hope that you will take that on board and will look to do that.
I hope that I have explained it.
First, my view is that the review of the budget is stalled.
We have received assurances that no job losses will affect public safety.
I do not deal with interventions on hypothetical issues.
However, I am not suggesting that we throw everything out.
We have not made a written submission.
Does that mean that we cannot get you.
What we need is for the young people to stay in Scotland.
Fourteen years have elapsed since that tax was created, so it is overdue for revaluation.
I will explain the situation regarding the legal case.
I apologise for my late arrival in the chamber, Presiding Officer.
I am keen not to misunderstand.
That brings us on to current petitions and responses to them.
I do not want to make a meal of this issue.
There are other factors, of which devo more tries to address quite a number.
It is clear that the change that the Government proposes can address that fundamentally.
Sharon Wood has answered that point.
We argue, contrary to what you said, that capital values are relatively stable.
The plan is a wish list.
However, a rapid turnover of children can produce a destabilising effect.
We need to support people whose health prevents them from getting employment.
A stifling tier of bureaucracy would be removed.
I talked about the upper limit.
The highest volatility comes from the grant, not income tax.
For me, the argument is not about the fact that they pay higher taxes.
I reiterate that that is counterintuitive.
That is part of the process of engineering, testing and getting the cost down.
There will be a range of services for which local authorities will be responsible.
People rely on an additional bedroom for many reasons.
Yes, I accept that completely.
I have not quite settled that in my mind, but that is my problem.
It would not be a case of holding individual councils to account.
Having been a consultant at one time, I regard consultancy as a profession.
Sometimes there is a common denominator and at other times the difficulties are localised.
The committee will, of course, take cognisance of that.
Those issues must be treated seriously.
We should not shrink from the promotion of minimum standards.
However, the tone of the ADSW briefing was less than desirable for this debate.
We will try to put fewer brackets in the next statutory instrument.
We are not used to such brevity, here.
There is a possibility that some individuals might well end up paying more.
There must be something wrong with your microphone.
That is why the Conservatives are saying no to the local income tax.
Are you talking about the social fund consultation.
I would not worry about the legal obligation.
I have to mention an interest in what followed.
If it were to change, getting dentists into the NHS would be even more difficult.
That could give our young people a tangible advantage in the global marketplace.
Of course, we are here to talk about a specific proposal on excise duty.
We look at other income streams or underspends in other areas.
What we have to say may, at first blush, sound odd.
I can come back with the number, if that would help.
We are fortunate at the moment because interest rates are low.
We are, but we do not all choose to implement it.
Twelve of the countries in the European Union have a local income tax system.
It is a complex argument.
One must look at where the money comes from at the moment.
We might be getting ahead of ourselves.
No, I am making an important point.
The risk profile for that would be high impact but very low likelihood.
I think that I understand your basic point.
Thirdly, under local personal taxation, I support the retention of council tax, albeit with refinements.
Many more people would use Glasgow airport if that were possible.
Kenneth Gibson is absolutely right.
I will press you a little bit more.
I echo what Highland Council says.
All businesses should have regular security check ups.
I am not aware of such a model.
The debate has been good.
The fact that we can legislate does not mean that we have to do so.
I look forward to the debate.
We need to ensure that genuinely integrated care happens properly and happens now.
I cannot give that assurance.
Every member of the committee wanted that.
I am sure that we would have serious concerns about that.
We are not so unrealistic.
An earlier question was whether it was safe to assume a static background.
Hugh Henry, in his contribution, hit the nail on the head.
Why did he feel the need to write to the newspaper to make that clear.
I think that the convener mentioned jobs for lawyers.
We must focus on that, as it is the most important issue.
That issue was not discussed at the annual general meeting.
In asking for members support, I reaffirm my commitment to be diligent, accountable and approachable.
She is now working as an assistant in the new Gaelic school in Inverness.
The situation in Grampian and the north east is at crisis point.
I am not sure that I am qualified to comment on that.
The electoral success of the Bloc Québécois has tailed off significantly.
It has been brewing for some time as a recognised problem.
That is half a cycle.
I wonder whether you will help me out, Professor Kemp.
Those are the formal participants in the round table discussion.
Time is short in the debate, so this speech will have to be foreshortened.
I am sure that all committee members wish you and your family well.
It is simply not the case.
We can show the way.
Our plans must also take account of judicial discretion in sentencing in individual cases.
We believe strongly in early intervention.
That is what I am coming to.
However, the landowner would not give permission for the bridge.
That fact underlines the need to reinforce the independence of the Standards Committee.
I expect that we will debate matters further in the Parliament as time goes on.
I will expand slightly on that.
] Sorry, it is a knee jerk reaction to try to switch on the microphone.
Will you give more detail on how it has been tightened.
Before I bring in other members, I have one follow up question.
It might be something for national Government to address.
Although I am disappointed by the BDAs response, we need constructive engagement with it.
I believe that the initial signs are encouraging.
That issue needs to be addressed.
He pointed out that trade unions represent almost the entire population in some Nordic countries.
I see the point that the witness is making.
I was going to question your figure.
It needs to be a language in which we can conduct business and everyday conversation.
We will now go on to the second part of your submission.
I have a few questions about the local income tax section of your submission.
I appreciate that you have a particular point of view on the bill.
Your statement at the outset was not factually correct, was it.
Yes, it merged with the International Mens Network.
I am happy to listen to other members comments on this issue.
If you want to ask me about that, that is fine.
The issues that we face in providing services are causing real strain.
Do you mean instructs it or gives it its remit.
This is about what is best for Scotland, not what is best for the UK.
The Scotland Bill would allow you some additional financial ways to do that.
To ask the Scottish Government when it will next meet Scottish Enterprise.
How do you suggest that we deal with that.
Members have made great play of the various studies.
I am sure that that will be explored further as we go on.
Clearly, that is not fair.
I thank the minister and his officials and I apologise for keeping them so late.
It is quite difficult to go back two and a bit years.
We therefore need politicians to be involved in the exercise.
We have talked about that issue at previous committee meetings.
For Scotch whisky to be called Scotch whisky, it must be distilled and matured here.
It seems that the Government is chasing plumbers.
That is an interesting answer.
John Beatties report says that girls switch off from PE.
We would have welcomed further discussion on that.
He defends cuts at the basic level.
Do members have any comments on the first or second bullet points.
I am not providing the solutions.
Rail links normally lead to an increase in use of the airport concerned.
I am of the opinion that the chair should be a fluent Gaelic speaker.
The Executive promised legislation to give Gaelic a better future.
You could control that to some extent.
The block grant is based on a spending formula.
That, of course, we all know.
I agree with those points and the points that Elaine Murray made.
None of the submissions identifies what the role of academic work is.
It comes from general tax and business tax.
Would you like to add anything, before I move on to Mr Rennie.
There is also new technology.
Fiona Hepplewhite might be able to provide some more information, if that would be helpful.
We are sitting here with a figure of nil.
I presume that the revenue would go to the Scottish Executive.
It is a big area.
The system itself is too complicated.
What you may do, as Ireland and Luxembourg have done, is attract corporate tax domiciles.
It is also wrong in principle because it usurps the role of elected councillors.
It is one of the most serious issues that I, as health secretary, face.
Therefore, the assertion that you made at the outset is not actually correct.
I then had to continue to Edinburgh by train.
As I have said, it is regressive and attacks people on low incomes.
I think that it is a good idea to publish corrections when mistakes are made.
All the rock in Caithness is part of the Caithness shale beds.
I am in my last minute, sorry.
I know that the minister has agreed to look at that difficult assessment process.
However, the code engages with current law, precedent and our planning colleagues guidance.
That will not necessarily protect the people who we think we are protecting.
The European Commission has not even closed its consultation yet.
It would be collected by HMRC.
The spirit of best value includes continuous improvement.
That is what happened in Denmark.
I thank the First Minister for his reply.
There are specific concerns that I hope that we can examine.
Of course, we are also mindful of present challenges.
How a school engages with its community must increasingly be the issue.
No, this is it, I am afraid.
The Office for Budget Responsibility uses Treasury models.
I do not understand why Willie Rennie thinks that that is ducking and diving.
That is what my question was going to be about.
Decisions about those arrangements are a matter for the three local partners.
There is no explanation, simply an assertion that that is the case.
I do not see anything wrong with that.
That has to be considered.
Members should believe me when I say that the food tastes fantastic.
I am not sure that that is entirely relevant.
I agree with Charlie Gordon  people do not like paying taxes.
I am grateful to Irene Oldfather for emphasising that point.
In my view, the big issue is the water environment bill.
When a decision has been made, the Parliament will be the first to know.
Two large departments were merged.
In countries such as Denmark and Sweden, specialised dental health educators supervise children's toothbrushing sessions.
There are fewer difficulties with income tax than with any of the others.
That is more than two out of five working age Scots.
After all, the debate is ultimately all about people.
Guidance on the definition would be helpful.
I would like members to stay on this issue.
The Conservatives are often accused of putting down local government.
The committee would also require access to that facility.
I am sure that there are many people who are sensible with their money.
Let the witness answer, Tommy.
The individual dentist is not the issue.
I welcome David Gauke MP, Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury.
We just need to look sceptically at all the choices.
Our policy will be based around those themes.
I thank you for giving evidence.
I think that we have debated this subject in members business four times.
We were all with her.
We have an awful long way to go before we get genuine choice.
I will take another quick question on a general theme from Stewart Maxwell.
The evidence that the committee received has been mentioned.
I agree with Ian McKee and many others that social workers are hugely undervalued professionals.
However, I will talk about the contribution that the university makes to Glasgow.
Perhaps we should replace that phrase with the word useful.
That is important and encouraging.
We cannot afford to remain in our silos and try to be autonomous.
That is swings and roundabouts, is it not.
The SNPs proposals are wrong on a number of counts.
Despite our objections to that, I intend to advocate the cause of Scotland.
I mentioned the most glaring problem, which is large scale underfunding.
We have abolished spending guidelines, which gives councils flexibility in setting their council tax levels.
We are also ensuring that apprenticeship opportunities are created through the regional selective assistance grants.
Many people who are in low paid employment are not entitled to council tax benefit.
The change fund has allowed the shift to community provision to begin.
That is just my reading of the bill.
There are implications around Scotland not getting much of a tax take.
The Scottish Parliamentary Standards Commissioner Bill is the product of the committees labour.
I am not aware that we know of any rationale for the change.
Will the minister take an intervention.
In producing that submission, will you consider the differential impact that the bandings have.
Equally important to me, however, is our investment in the future of Gaelic.
You made the case for the return of non domestic rates to local control.
A lot of those sectors are dependent on those same small businesses.
That is a good point.
We have seen examples of that in recent times.
That is part of the explanation.
I presume that you got a copy of the letter, Mr Gauke.
The proposals continue to be considered by two Parliaments.
Guernsey has another market for those who want to buy second and holiday homes.
It is like the Barnett formula.
We have almost no Scottish level collective bargaining.
What little influence is available, the Scottish Executive fails to use.
Thank you for what has been a useful session.
It was not of my doing, convener.
That is the problem if there is no adjustment later on for one off deductions.
That was one of their first so called social experiments.
Both initiatives are aimed at attracting dentists to remote areas.
That affects the thinking in the paper.
I, too, wish Iain Gray well in the future.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
It is only fair, as she mentioned me.
I believe that we might be doing so.
But borrowing has to be repaid.
Of course, that consensus might be wrong.
I have faith that my colleagues in Westminster will put forward our views.
Thats what comes to Scotland.
Geographical consequences can flow from our risk based approach.
Thank you very much for giving evidence to the Finance Committee this morning.
Thank you, convener, for the opportunity to report back.
Is there a view on that.
The Executive and other bodies are doing research into various areas.
Iona Colvin was speaking about this.
They had the opportunity to raise some major points, but their contributions were somewhat disappointing.
It is also important to emphasise that there are skills shortages in Scotland.
As we know and as we have heard today, there are many forms of abuse.
That is not so obviously the case with the other smaller taxes.
I gave the committee a commitment to update it on progress on them.
I ask the First Minister whether Brussels shares his sense of urgency.
Someone needs to bring all those people together.
That is the area of study for my doctoral research.
I did not mention every disadvantaged group, but I did not mean to exclude anyone.
Where will we do that.
Tommy, can you stick to questions to the witnesses.
As politicians we certainly ignore them at our peril.
I am not sure about that.
It treats the symptoms, not the underlying cause.
The amendments improve the bill considerably and we welcome them.
This is a serious issue.
What is the Conservative partys policy on private dentistry.
A balance must be struck between the two.
The Scottish Government opposes any reduction in the number of MEPs representing Scotland.
Angela Constance is quite right.
You would be allowed to modulate which group you targeted.
It was, of course, the loathed poll tax.
Ms Sturgeon has admitted today that there is no reason why that cannot happen.
We will come on to the transitional arrangements.
You would have to convince your people to hold it.
Westminster will not proceed to pass legislation that falls within those categories.
I began by mentioning the Melbost bards song, Canan nan Gaidheal.
That one tax is the council tax.
No one has complained as far as I am aware.
As a result, there will be no major changes in the meantime.
I look forward to reading that research in due course.
We are dealing with the courts system.
The minister recently visited a climate monitor farm in the Borders, near Jedburgh.
Do you agree that that is quite a substantial sum.
I am happy to move such a motion.
I agree with Shona Robisons comment about the language that has been used.
I have little to add to my answer.
We have a world renowned treatment centre at Peterhead.
Like Richard Baker, I had never heard of Edwards syndrome.
We could do much better in developing the managers and leaders of the future.
The OBR has made several errors in the past in forecasting growth for the UK.
We also suggest that what people judge councils on is service delivery.
Businesses would have access to the immediate point of collection.
I think that that is a good thing.
I am not sure how that aligns with the figures that the convener quoted.
Secondly, Government can provide sector specific initiatives of various types.
If the answer in the referendum is no, we will be at a critical juncture.
I am talking about those who would pay more tax if the bill were passed.
That would have been a highly ambitious programme.
 That is where we are just now.
However, it depends on how one looks at cost.
I am sorry that she does not understand the definition to be so inclusive.
I do not wish to make any comments at the moment on the submission.
The Scottish Government does not tolerate any form of child abuse.
It is a pleasure and very interesting to be here.
I understand that that includes significant improvement to Lochaber, Thurso and Wick high schools.
However, we know that the market conditions for shellfish are very difficult at present.
I am aware that in Scotland that is a political tall order.
I remind members in the chamber not to refer to You.
The commissioner will be appointed by the Parliament on the recommendation of the Standards Committee.
We are aware of that.
I would like to make a little progress, if Mr Adam does not mind.
The problem is that there is little or no accountability in local government.
There can be scope for such work.
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
The people of Scotland deserve no less.
Our slight reservation about a national tax is that it would not provide local autonomy.
All that we have to do now is stay focused and deliver what is needed.
That is not so much the case for a widow or a widower.
As a result, if members can save a few seconds, we would be extremely grateful.
The question is what exceptions there should be.
The web address was simply registered, which stopped the virus from further executing.
They ended up being taken home, which was very positive.
It might be better to put that question to the relevant professional bodies.
There is much that I agree with in Lord James Douglas Hamiltons motion.
I am not saying that it cannot work.
The example that I keep referring to is the small business bonus scheme.
I met Scottish Enterprise at a meeting of the national economic forum yesterday.
The report is most interesting.
We should give the minister due credit for that.
The biggest factor is determination that escapes should not happen.
With respect, I think that that is in the bill.
The UK Government has not accepted it.
That seems to me to be bad practice.
In every year following that, there have been only inflationary increases.
Jimmy and I would disagree on some of that.
If there is a problem, as you say, the question is how we address it.
Funding for new teachers is not being top sliced.
You are not saying that the absolute answer is to centralise those functions.
The few are now subsidising the many.
At the moment, Scotland would experience difficulties in doing that because of its fiscal position.
Members will recall that the committee has twice tried to reach Aberdeen.
That is why Labours manifesto proposed to phase out water charges for pensioners.
The motion covers two other options.
I want to know what the reduction in the block would be.
Like other members, I fully appreciate and commend the intent of Andrew Arbuckles proposal.
This applied to all sectors of dentistry.
I apologise that this has been such a long session.
We must ensure that business increases in totality in the city.
You asked, first, what is my view of that.
Of course, my colleagues and I will vote in favour of the bill.
I would say whisky, but that is maybe just me.
The minister was wise to reject that ridiculous proposal.
You are quite right to say that your submission favoured a Scotland wide approach.
We are very conscious of the issue, the scale of which is clear.
That is not what I was saying.
From me, it is praise.
We look forward to seeing such amendments.
That seems to be an imbalance, which must be studied.
It is difficult to predict the level of bureaucracy that will be involved.
That can help to increase the voluntary compliance rates.
However, that remains our position, and we will continue to defend it.
Two other things are equally important to businesses  simplicity and service.
We need flexibility in the system and we should have rewards for kids.
Does he support returning the non domestic rate to local authority control, as we do.
It is unfair and unfixable.
I want to highlight one or two areas.
Thank you for bearing with us in going over those questions from last week.
There are, of course, more to come.
We have discussed examples of attracting foreign inward investment.
 Why can things not be done in five years.
Indeed, this debate was first called workforce development.
If not, perhaps she will discuss it with Andrew Lamb at some future date.
Mr Thomson from Reform Scotland spoke about that.
Fiscal drag has been discussed before.
That is what the group is asking for.
Many middle income groups there seem to have been hit quite hard.
The first thing to ask is whether there is capacity within the system.
That made a little difference but not a great deal.
That is why I favour making explicit the choices that are being made.
As Jackie Baillie said, the issue is people and we should not forget that.
We have a long way to go to catch up.
However, substantial administrative effort will be required, and that will not be cheap.
We are all in favour of Scottish farmers producing cereals for Scotch whisky.
We have had persistent, year on year budget deficits.
The previous Government produced a white paper, on which there were further comments.
Both my amendments in this group relate to education.
I thank the minister for that initiative.
One system that is quite different is the Belgian system.
The Scottish Government has already undertaken significant work in that area.
That shows the danger of economic forecasting.
I rely on the independent evidence that Professor Arthur Midwinter gives to the Finance Committee.
For a long time, it has been a deliverer of services.
Over the past year, we have consulted extensively.
It is a little indigestible.
I think that that is an important issue.
That would be a positive development.
I do not think that it does.
No one can argue that Scottish distillers are not committed to Scotland.
We are being sold a pup.
Before we hear from Mr Scott, I want to clarify something.
Council services are no longer being addressed by core services.
Sylvia Jackson knows that council tax charges bear no relation to peoples ability to pay.
Recently, though, I have noticed a reversal of political attitudes in many countries.
You can defend it in French, if you like.
I move on to the wider issues.
Of course, a healthy marine ecosystem is also essential for the aquaculture industry.
I am grateful to Dr Jackson for raising the issue.
If so, the answer is yes.
I have a question for Jess Barrow about the impact on older people.
That is the position that we submitted to the independent inquiry.
However, given that he is not moving them, I will leave it at that.
Perhaps she should have a draft letter standing by.
There is no reason why, with immersion education, Scottish Gaelic could not be saved.
We recognise the importance of the areas of specialism to which Margo MacDonald refers.
However, we wanted to emphasise the central importance of funding.
I am arguing that that submission gives strong support for the service tax proposal.
The point is that our relationship with our children continues to develop.
To ask the Scottish Executive how it is supporting the development of community schools.
That would justify his absence.
It is very tough to do that.
We need to be in a similar position.
Many members have talked about finance for local service delivery.
Some tree felling and cutting of low branches would give us all that we need.
Neighbouring local authorities are taking different approaches to charging.
Quite a period of time is available in the debate.
The tax adviser has no protection.
There will be open debate until noon, so members speeches should be around five minutes.
Strong feelings against the poll tax were the order of the day.
Thank you very much, secretary of state.
The minister referred to that, but she needs to go further.
Through your offices, Presiding Officer, I ask whether the First Minister made such a statement.
Will the threat of more penalties for people who abuse the system have an effect.
I also scrutinised the legislation when it was before the Health and Sport Committee.
They could be more difficult to achieve.
It is about the outcomes that we get from those inputs.
He said that in the morning and we met the minister in the afternoon.
Thank you, convener, and good afternoon everyone.
I just want to clarify that.
The team announced that Glasgow would be allowed to keep some of its business rates.
I said that I anticipate that there will be agreement and that I want agreement.
There might be a clue in that regard in the minds in the Treasury.
I want to ask all the witnesses about clarity.
I must admit that I have not looked at that.
The evidence of the past few recessions is that the turnaround is quite quick.
I will leave it at that, because there is no evidence.
However, there are some obvious differences.
It is possible for people to vote for two different parties in different elections.
Tackling climate change and developing renewable energy are two sides of the same coin.
Some of those might be in the delivery of on going programmes.
I will address it to Professor Kemp and then bring in the other witnesses.
I have one other area of access to mention.
Taxpayers should be able to calculate easily how much they have to pay.
I turn to the more substantive issue of the system itself.
However, we intend to revise the explanatory notes to improve understanding of the information.
Would there not have to be a taxation agreement between the countries involved.
I missed that aspect of it.
They would probably take in the order of three to five years.
There is then a needs factor, which could be based on five or six indicators.
If there is fiscal drag.
Even that small allotment would make a difference.
The answer depends on what form of accountability you are talking about.
That was the first pony trekking centre in the whole of the United Kingdom.
That was specifically on the borrowing limit in the bill.
That was pointed out in the Bell paper that I read yesterday.
As I expected, clear problems with the current system were highlighted.
Otherwise, Australia is really very homogeneous.
Frankly, the SNPs proposal is not workable.
Where in the Scottish budget should the money come from.
Show them some support and give them some help, because they badly need it.
There are also fuel duty and excise duty.
In addition, guidance is being issued to the organisers of all large events.
Are you referring to regional travel within the UK.
Businesses do not have a vote, but that is not the issue.
They make a budget forecast of what they expect the revenue to be.
We have talked about pooling budgets, but I hope that that actually happens.
In that sense, they can all be equally accountable.
I would not agree with me either.
How frequently should there be revaluation.
The two statements seem to be related.
To my mind, that definitely falls into the nice to have category.
We are not talking about a small top up tax.
Kate Maclean raised that point when she spoke about the situation in Dundee.
It was never part of the HMRC estimate.
Such an approach would command support from the SNP.
We are all refreshed after the recess and ready for action.
We will have passionate, heated and noisy debates over the next couple of years.
That might sound like a movie plot, but it had a significant effect.
There is clear statistical evidence of that.
That was the problem that we had in coming up with illustrative examples.
It also means greater participation, transparency and accountability.
remain significantly worse in the most deprived parts of Scotland.
I will reflect on that.
The Executives debate today centres on developing our current and future workforce.
Nicol Stephen outlined some of the figures.
If that rebate were extended to water, what would be the impact.
If there is no room for streamlining there, there will never be room for streamlining.
Will you explain the practical difference between such agreements and ring fenced funding.
Standards have never been higher.
We will introduce legislation to bring about a radical transformation of community health partnerships.
The proposal for a local income tax has much to commend it.
However, that is where Mary fell down.
We want to show that a prosperous and low carbon economy is possible.
There is no difficulty with assessing the annual, imputable rental income of land.
We need to consider what the CAP does.
I do not understand the desperate worry about giving up power.
Please come to your question, Ms Livingstone.
In responding, I am pleased that the minister has approached the Conservative position.
A number of systems are in place in Scotland.
I am the MSP for the Liberal Democrats for Glasgow.
The situation is becoming extremely urgent.
Sometimes decisions are made irrespective of what the corporation tax rate is.
Basically, the Labour Government froze all debate about the future of Barnett.
That number has then apparently been multiplied by five.
This comes back to the issue of capital versus rent level stability.
Would that have wider economic advantages in respect of those citizens ability to spend more.
I have a question for clarification.
I hope that the ADSW will get round the table and share its concerns.
Local government finance is in chaos.
I can almost write the ministers response to todays debate.
Are you asking why we advocate retention of the council tax.
There is a point that Mike Russell raised that has been omitted.
I turn to the deferment scheme.
It is a good and timely topic for debate.
Can you provide evidence to support that.
I will finish my outline of the model that we propose.
I got the impression that you were pretty negative about those reforms.
First, the letter had not been sent last week.
That is a very peculiar approach to economics.
It is a plan for economic success where the UK Government has no plan.
I think that Sir Ian Wood put it best.
That will require difficult but unavoidable decisions about policy direction.
However, I am quite clear that we cannot initiate any work ourselves.
That should have been addressed previously.
We were told yesterday that it was going to be published in two parts.
Mr McColl might have anticipated my question.
There was also much in Kenny MacAskills speech with which I agree.
It is premature to rule out such funding at this stage.
Ms MacDonald, you are still with us.
There is cross party consensus on this matter.
That power is not available to us, and it would be helpful to have it.
I do not want to discuss our interpretation of the empirical record.
Like many regions in the EU, it feels alienated.
Perhaps I did not explain myself properly.
We are looking for added value opportunities.
You would just start from where you were and recalibrate going forward.
I want to touch briefly on the capital borrowing powers that the bill contains.
That would be for somebody paying three quarters of the bill.
He said that the tax proposals are a small, safe, incremental step.
Conflicts will always arise around how national parks operate.
There is training for work.
Many of my local party colleagues will be forever in his debt.
The issue is easily resolved by the commencement order mechanism.
It improved quality while it increased output and reduced charges.
That is what it is in Ireland.
It is important that we get to grips with the issues now.
You would therefore have to look across the whole tax base.
It is taking a heck of a long time for something to come of it.
That is the perspective that I would advance.
We are lucky to have here Professor Smith, who is an expert on local taxation.
Income tax is a very technical issue that can also be very dry.
In my opinion, that was an extremely brave thing to do.
With a Labour Government, the UK has built up more respect in Europe.
There should be limitations that are carefully considered by the Parliament.
There will be a real skills shortage.
That is why we are here today and responding to various proposals.
However, the Standards Committee acknowledged that some investigations might be complex.
If we think about that, it cannot be true, because different taxes have different drivers.
On the one hand, we all want the police to be effective law enforcers.
That is a positive commitment.
You mentioned grant distribution, which has come up again and again.
Do members want to make any points.
The Labour Party will support the Governments motion.
You wrote extensively about that in your submission.
We need to ensure that the private rented sector is part of our discussions.
I am sure that Parliament will support the motion.
Scotland will produce potentially the cheapest marine energy in Europe.
The next item of business is a subject debate on housing.
Local food is not just an agenda item for rural communities.
Thank you for the honesty of that answer.
I would, however, make two points, the first of which is a very general one.
Those savings will, of course, be available for reinvestment to boost front line services.
The way it is raised is not particularly relevant, in our view.
The defining feature of a local income tax system is that it is fairer.
Colleagues, I am looking for some consensus.
I will, therefore, put my questions to John Swinney.
It is called pay as you earn, and the Inland Revenue does it for us.
Unfortunately, all too often just now, some of them become negative.
Should we have a short break and break out the glasses.
That would be a bad judgment call.
There is no doubt that that will add to the burden.
I was just trying to find a short cut.
That is becoming more important.
That makes a state interested in attracting payrolls.
With that in mind, we have continued to engage closely with the key stakeholder groups.
I have received two valid nominations for appointment.
The challenge of raising awareness of the issues should not be exclusive to politicians.
Indeed, Ben Thomson has already mentioned the worldwide trend in that direction.
Housing services are at a crossroads.
In other words, only the parts of income that can be easily reported are taxed.
I want to ask about the non domestic rate.
Of course, we expect ministers to follow suit in their answers.
Some projects were initiated under the previous Administration and the Government is taking them forward.
We are happy to accept in full the two points that she makes.
We are behind the game.
A number of members have mentioned allotments.
In a way, that limits the possible scope of your action.
That might be a factor.
This has been a useful and valuable debate.
They wanted to ensure that things were done and managed properly.
Those provisions also extend in various regards to children who are under school age.
That would be ambitious, even for the Scottish Government.
It sounds like the call might be about football tickets for tonight.
There is obviously another aspect to it  value for money.
We have therefore been fairly busy in gathering information and views.
Revenue could be increased, and that could relieve pressures in certain parts of the budget.
There is plenty of evidence on the Scottish Parliaments website.
That is why people feel safer on our streets and in our communities.
You have explored that further.
We cannot have it both ways.
We want more people who are experiencing mental ill health to seek support.
That process has never been more vital.
They could also make informal queries and have things clarified.
Finally, the committee asked the Executive to reconsider the overall size of the cake.
Kevin Stewart raised the issue of the pressure that will come on the private sector.
Local food is certainly good for the economy.
I would not describe the welfare reform policies in that way.
It comes down to the crux of the debate and why we are here.
The OBR uses whatever model it wishes to use.
Do other members have views on the petition.
I want to follow on from Iain Smiths question.
How did the meeting go.
I have not changed my mind on any recommendations.
That is the kind of situation in which we find ourselves.
That will be the limiting factor.
Have you spoken to the commission Did you give evidence to it.
Thats what we negotiate with the Scottish Executive.
It would also help to provide the whisky manufacturers with a unique selling point.
The committee might want to consider where the balance of pressures lies.
That is what I am talking about.
I will stand corrected if it can be found.
There are big problems in that regard.
We recently received a letter from the Minister for Social Justice on housing set aside.
I am sure that political arguments will be presented in that way.
That is simply not right.
There is real concern that an awful lot of work has still to be done.
I am sure that we all know someone who is affected.
As for structures, ideas and values must be debated more.
On the question of lower taxes, there are two arguments to make.
We need to finish with the warm words and commit ourselves to effective action.
Does Mr Peacock want any more concision.
Analysis of the possible impact resulted in the technical note.
I do not think that the situation will be fundamentally different.
Canada and Australia are two federations that look quite similar.
That has just increased their tax costs, because it is not possible to offset them.
You ask for the reason why the view was overturned.
We will work with housing providers to try to avoid that situation arising.
I commend the report, which is a sound and thorough one.
I would like to explore some of that criticism.
At present, local government guarantees the water industry its payments.
The costs are expected to reduce, if anything.
There is growing parental and community support for all Gaelic schools.
Head teachers have other issues from which they dare not divert their attention.
It is not the least bit hypothetical.
Good quality services must be provided.
The provision about parents access to records is uncontroversial.
The corporation tax rates have fluctuated quite substantially, even just in recent years.
Thornton says its impact on economic growth is not statistically significant.
Such action follows the appointment of salaried dentists by Grampian NHS Board.
It seems to me that only two things will save Gaelic.
Yes, we should be very worried about it.
On the issue of the transition, there are certain technical issues that could be improved.
Basically, I am asking whether we have got the balance right.
We do not operate on party political lines.
More than half of the Scottish whisky industry is owned by foreign international companies.
Neither of those can be controlled under devolution because of European Union rules.
There is also a debate about the longer term future of local government finance.
There are no magic solutions to issues such as that with the trust model.
A lot of the debate seemed to be about such timing effects.
I invite you to comment on the references that you have provided.
We have improved our compliance processes nationwide.
Mr Don has a question, which he promises will be very quick.
That sounds like the mythical beast of a popular tax.
I would work hard at all times to get a smiley face.
] I thought that that was him entering the room, but it is not.
I can recite a litany of remarkable achievements by such groups.
The same rate of VAT has to prevail on a particular class of items.
That proportion should be kept as small as possible.
It must have been the Democrat part that time.
Those are calculations that he has carried out and can answer questions on.
Economists get quite nerdy about the issue.
Can you explain why there is such an apparent imbalance.
In addition, the Government claims credit for maintenance investment that would have happened anyway.
Shall I repeat my question.
The provision is widely welcomed across the Gaelic community.
The convener talked about older people relying on the health service.
We remain committed to further improvements in public services delivered by local government.
Yes, but that has made no substantial difference.
That is a major proposition.
I hark back to the case of Quebec.
That concludes questions to the First Minister.
Ultimately, the Government targeted a smaller based tax than it could otherwise have done.
That is the model that we should use.
I represent the South Scotland region, so I will focus on that area.
The situation is complex, which is why the legislation is complex.
The difficulty there is how the plot should be defined.
The committee proposes an additional local tax.
The issue can be addressed in two ways.
Will you expand on the no detriment principle.
How much does the member get.
We also need, in that process, to ensure that subsidiarity is recognised.
I thank the member for giving way.
I will ask about procedure.
I have indicated our willingness to collaborate with Audit Scotland.
The minister made an important reference to the mainstreaming of Gaelic.
We are questioning all hypotheses.
The freeing up of that control mechanism would help.
My minimum requirement is far more transparency immediately about the operation of the Barnett formula.
Globally, that figure could be well over half a trillion US dollars per annum.
I thank them for agreeing to give evidence on their report.
I would like to make one marginal point.
If things go very well, there could be more oil than that.
I simply do not follow your argument.
Almost daily, our members raise issues with us about HMRC.
I was asking you about local authorities, rather than about owners.
I am a passionate European.
Neither assertion has any foundation.
There must be wider involvement and wider debates.
Individuals and companies will exploit those opportunities whenever they see them arising.
It is entirely clear that that is not good legal practice.
Des McNulty asked how our objectives fit with the budget priorities.
Parents are quite happy with their current level of involvement in the management of schools.
Consideration could be given to reintroducing charges that have been taken away.
Thank you for giving evidence this afternoon in the first stage of our inquiry.
You think that that is a better argument than simply lifting all caps off borrowing.
We need to realise that this is a real problem.
The corporate body appreciates his long standing interest in the matter.
Do you mean Strathclyde University revisited.
Others assist me and do work under my instructions.
That is a good level of response and is encouraging.
Why did you decide that it was not an appropriate way forward.
I would like to reach a consensus on the issue.
I will keep my sunny disposition.
 We have to balance that.
However, you did not take one year as a starting point.
In effect, we are neglecting looked after children.
As Rob Gibson and others mentioned, they also want inactive leases to be freed up.
That is a complete misinterpretation of what I have just said.
Let us examine the arguments for some form of property tax.
You have asked the difficult question first.
I will allow members to ask questions on the submission.
Farmers markets have been an important part of that.
I do not see how we can do that with current immigration policies.
That is the belief of your organisation.
I welcome the First Ministers response.
Yes, but make it your final question, please.
There is an absolute guarantee that I can give to Annabel Goldie.
Revaluations are always potential bad news.
May I confirm that we have nothing to report on the regulationsMembers indicated agreement.
I have already made that point.
It is the same principle that was applied in the original financial memorandum.
We should be aware, however, that there are often gaps in provision.
That indicates that the project is economically worth while.
However, we are aware of the situation in the Scandinavian countries in particular.
The system is not perfect, but perfection is not for this world.
The benefits of a local income tax are clear.
Are such issues being considered.
The aquaculture industrys interests do not necessarily have to be in conflict with environmental concerns.
We need constantly to ask those kinds of questions.
That was another lesson learned.
Members will be aware of the vast array of reports on the subject.
I will ask the same question of Age Concern.
I fully agree with that.
The SNP and the Labour new Tories now think that that is too punitive.
I do not anticipate that it will be.
Can you simply tell us the source for that analysis.
Their income taxes tend to be a little bit higher than ours.
Members who wish to vote for Mr MacAskill should vote yes now.
I cannot accept the committees conclusion that the council tax is a sound tax.
I thank Professor Begg very much.
The truth is that we are looking at an effective cut for local authorities.
I remain of the opinion that that is the consensus view of the committee.
Currently, a small number of agencies across Scotland run successful advice helplines for survivors.
I have explained already how at a very early stage we agreed the principles.
That is where the Barnett formula starts.
Partly, I have been here before when answering an earlier question.
I do not know whether you have had advice on that.
We recommended that they should be returned, with safeguards, to local authorities.
The Liberal Democrat/SNP run City of Edinburgh Council will obviously look at that.
What I am saying is that my priority is to get the Scotland Bill through.
That would not be a recipe for success.
The committee should have the full story.
The Government is supportive of a variety of forms of renewable energy.
His comments will be taken on board.
It means that people who earn the most are capable of getting the most relief.
There may be lessons to draw from them.
We are able to regulate imports from all diseased areas, and we are doing so.
We should all be proud of the target.
All parties need to keep the situation under review and bring forward their own proposals.
Do you agree that that would be a sensible way to proceed, Ms Kelly.
I ask everyone to ensure that their mobile phones and pagers are switched off.
Social care is one area that faces those pressures.
That is a big debate.
The committee took a lot of evidence on that report.
However, Britain has a particularly curious set of conditions in relation to those matters.
What would those specific purposes be.
I see where you are coming from.
Heaven forfend that that is where we end up.
I am trying to clarify my point.
Is farm land in other European states liable to tax.
We have not discussed that.
They should declare any interest that is related to decisions that they make.
My second point is about Aberdeen.
I request that contributions be made one at a time through the convener.
I believe firmly that sport is vital to Scotlands future, particularly for our young people.
I am mindful of the time.
Whether those two things are related and what the causality is are other questions.
Obviously, we would like changes to be made in those areas.
Yes, because lengthening the day is only one way of altering it.
George Lyon has done so.
After all, the source is closer to their production points and so easier to access.
We have the opportunity to move the debate forward.
Let David give his answer.
English law and Scots law are different in the realm of tax and trusts.
Members should just bear that in mind when asking their questions.
Both cities need such a link, and they need it quite desperately.
That is not to say that there has not been progress.
From that point, you can gradually build social institutions that function.
Even though the rate would be lower, the compliance costs would be higher.
Quite a few people now wish to speak.
That is a real concern.
How would you draw in councils that are not members of COSLA.
I ask Professor Holtham to make a short opening statement.
How could the budget be tweaked to emphasise those areas.
We will deal with those issues when we discuss the second and third themes.
If the Government needed the revenue, it would have to do something about that.
Will the member just tell us.
As many members have observed, we want a healthier Scotland.
There should be certainty about how activities will be taxed.
We consider that a badge of honour.
A separate issue is supermarkets and consumers.
The chamber should pay heed to the wording of the bill.
Am I allowed to ask him questions.
The European institutions acknowledge that they have allowed themselves to become too remote from citizens.
They like sauntering across the meadows on their way to work.
Some folk have physical disabilities and so require the extra space.
In the line that concerns transition arrangements, one element is Agreement with HMRC.
In the first place, you cannot entirely eliminate spillovers.
I would have to ask whose interests are served by such action.
I am sticking to it.
It is not within our remit to do that.
I will pursue that point briefly.
I will ask about three issues before I bring in other members.
Roll on the day when we are an independent member of the European Union.
As Angela Scott said, salaries are one of the biggest items of local authority expenditure.
It could not be introduced for many years, for a start.
Any increase in differential with Northern Ireland might exacerbate that problem.
I might have answered all the questions but please challenge me if I have not.
Thank you for your paper.
That means that some of them will not build any houses next year.
Here it would end up being an additional burden on hard pressed businesses.
I am glad that the SNP is now supporting a third dental school in Scotland.
I can read that very clearly, and just as well as you can.
Another reason for reform is that Europe does too much at the centre.
The Scottish Conservatives want to make a positive and constructive contribution to the debate.
Jim Mather made an interesting speech.
A good starting point is the Irish rate of corporation tax.
I did not suggest that there would be a problem.
I agree with Bristow Muldoon that the motion is a good one.
However, as we have just demonstrated, one can find disagreement over numbers quite easily.
Members such as Mike Watson and Eleanor Scott asked about teaching and education.
I thought that that was what our predecessor committee and the Calman commission did.
I am extremely glad that Bristow Muldoon has raised that point.
Will you flesh that out a bit more for us.
The smaller indicators are causing difficulties at the margins.
Extra burdens that are put upon them could threaten their future viability.
They also demonstrate that Scottish farmers are capable of supplying the markets.
Since the war, Bavaria has attracted businesses based on payroll, which are the modern services.
It is now time for action.
Many schools are already successful in promoting inclusion.
I further agree that, in the longer term, we need to replace the council tax.
They will expect to make a profit.
In Edinburgh, it is about school transport.
We welcome back Tommy Sheridan after the good news of the birth of his daughter.
The figures go on and on.
The feeling is therefore still that a more general wealth tax would be better.
Not to support it is to agree with and to perpetuate inequality for women.
The amount of work that goes into members bills cannot be underestimated.
You are saying that that is fair enough if the work is being done properly.
We need to get on with the task of matching those needs much more quickly.
The paper tries to establish a principle for the way forward.
I was accused of having been lobbied by the NFUS, which is incorrect.
In relation to partnership, no one will be surprised that I will talk about carers.
I just want the member to answer a simple question.
I want us to be absolutely clear on one point.
A councillor must make that distinction.
There are two dimensions to that.
Governments play awful games and they have got to stop playing them.
Mr Neil mentioned six projects.
Anyway, this debate is important not only at a symbolic level.
It also says that the business rate should be passed back to local control.
The member should have waited to hear what I was going to say.
Some may feel that, ideally, the two would be integrated.
People need to know not only about defence but about the euro.
I believe that he does.
Countries, for example Estonia, have from time to time tried to do that.
I thank you for your evidence.
Is the whole point of devolution not that a country can have different funding priorities.
That mechanism is found in Scandinavian countries.
To ask the Scottish Executive how it is promoting smoke free policies to local authorities.
The bill is a pensioner friendly bill from a pensioner friendly party.
I refer the member to my answer to Ms Fergusons question.
They are also a source of excellence.
I am concerned about what you have said.
Those things are extremely important.
However, it is not just health that is affected by income inequality.
To ask the Scottish Executive what its transport priorities are for Ayrshire.
The report also said that the bill would undermine local democracy.
That was another argument that Help the Aged advanced to us.
It is designed to allow revenue Scotland to take counteraction against avoidance activity generally.
Subjects are helpful as a way of organising knowledge.
There is a genuine problem with the transition from school to post school life.
Perhaps I should give the chamber a brief history behind the amendment.
We discussed the corporation tax issue in detail.
There are broadly five sources from which we can raise money for capital investment.
Children in Scotland has identified other issues that are worth exploring.
I am not sure that we will get anything particularly radical from the Conservatives.
Some of the more progressive councils are entering into such discussions.
Fortunately for the committee, your adviser is one of those few people in this country.
All those options need to be examined to find the best value option.
My firm view is that we should not really tolerate anonymous complaints.
The details will have to be considered.
On visiting and the conduct of visitors, sisters and charge nurses are now in charge.
Good morning, panel, and thank you for coming in this morning.
Are there any questions on this subject.
I just do not understand how a register of interests would help.
No other tax is loathed as much.
You have been candid about that, for which we are grateful.
There will be the mechanism whereby HMRC can give evidence.
I hope that that answers the question.
I have one point about exemptions.
I have not looked at the issue.
I want to ask about the Subordinate Legislation Committee report and the members model code.
We welcome the opportunity to discuss the important subject of workforce development.
You have been very patient.
With a view to raising the tax base.
At the end of the day, it is a political issue.
They have succeeded in strangling what could have been a good idea at its birth.
That is the position that the Scottish Parliament set out and agreed to.
You mention in your submission that you want that system to be replaced.
However, you also have to think about the wider consequences.
Brian Monteith introduced important evidence about that provision.
What happens internationally will impact on Scotland.
I know that you have been sitting in the public gallery.
That should be firmly in our mind.
I fully endorse what Ian Jenkins said.
Parents can help their children to learn.
It gives me no pleasure to say that we were right.
I could just say, We agree.
If I remember rightly, the issue came up early on because people were generally concerned.
The Parliament voted for that.
However, that is an area in which ministers have become increasingly directive.
That limits the horizons of our young people.
I am sure that all of you know how things are on the committee.
Local government has been required to do more and more with less and less.
It seems to me that the bill contains nothing about scrapping water and sewerage charges.
There is no equivalent to that at Westminster.
I have a question about domestic taxes.
That is a good note on which to finish.
Why is that the case.
I have just recovered from fairly severe bruising that resulted from a girl kicking me.
He did not discuss the number of commissioners or MEPs.
I might have said enough to provoke discussion.
At this stage, we favour that option rather than the formal scrutiny reserve.
There are various ways of dealing with that.
It is the responsibility of the health secretary to tackle infection in our hospitals.
My personal views might not always coincide with the views of my organisation.
Have you thought about that as an answer to the dilemma that may exist.
The promise is that the council tax will be frozen for two years.
We must all participate fairly in that balancing act.
I think that the Scottish Parliament should have a role in that process.
One example that stuck in my mind was the Forth bridges.
Local government has taken community planning seriously.
This is a moral question not just a financial one.
I want to respond to what Tommy Sheridan said.
It is the cost of the new Forth bridge.
Such transportation difficulties only add to the emotional strain involved.
National parks can also attract external investment and encourage sustainable rural development.
The bill would prevent local politicians from setting the local council tax.
We must take responsibility for ourselves, and, more important, for future generations.
These are concerning times for the workforce there and our sympathy goes to them.
It would not be possible.
I am in favour of Scotland being part of the United Kingdom.
I will happily repeat that however many times I have to do it.
The issue is too important for us to fail.
There is one quote that I forgot to select.
That is a different policy question altogether.
I could go on for many more minutes, but I will curtail my speech.
They seem to have had a lot of difficulty in hanging on to it.
It would be helpful if members asked questions without long preambles.
You are right  it is a complicated picture and is not an exact science.
We must continue to expand the use of local food in Scotland.
The headlines in todays newspapers are wrong.
You will be able easily to explain the methodology, then.
How would you assess the ability of a business to pay at local council level.
I expect that number to continue increasing.
I hope that we all support him.
We cannot ring fence Scotland and say, This is the Scottish solution.
At least we agree on that.
That is the whole point.
That must be the immediate imperative for infrastructure expenditure.
I think we need a bigger basket.
I thank the minister for that and a previous written reply on the subject.
That does not address the issue of fairness in the system, does it.
I will now address the rail link.
Jim McColl is right about the agglomeration effects.
As things stand, we see duplication and the dislocation of business without clarity.
That is what I have just said, yes.
What you did was to say, It is all negative and ignore the positives.
You seem to be talking about two things.
It will have important effects that will go beyond its provisions.
That is just a case of regional development.
Do you want me to give the reference for circulation to committee members.
This is an urgent social issue.
I am concerned about the reason for the establishment of the IGC.
There are ways to resolve all those issues.
Five key driving principles are given for the Scottish Executive strategy.
There are very good examples from the Wheatley Group, or Glasgow Housing Association.
Aquaculture is a sector in which there have been financial threats aplenty in the past.
A dialogue goes on between the Scottish Executive and the UK Government.
I agree that there is a role for strong oversight.
The Tory proposal would hardly be a progressive tax.
We live in the modern world.
It might have incentivised some groups, but the evidence is mixed.
Mr McLetchie, remember that this is a committee, not a courtroom.
The question is specific to individual projects and circumstances.
The organisation will be run as a commercial business to provide best value.
Asking folk to hire bikes represents an additional expense.
I agree with Mr Hepburn.
However, we have a different view about access to the court system.
Scotland is not sufficiently different from the whole of the UK in that regard.
Only the interim arrangement is completely pernicious.
In the short term, we wanted council tax to be reviewed to make it fairer.
Is there any prospect that they could rise, or is that a maximum.
Mr Don, can you finish on this point.
I think that I can guess the Governments stance on the question.
That is entirely the right way to proceed.
Now, we need its help in return.
People nowadays can expect to have about three different careers.
The analysis is based on what has happened in the past.
That objective must lie at the heart of the renewed strategy.
There are different ways of calibrating that.
Following that, I will take questions from committee members.
One cannot completely dodge the question of structure.
Even the younger members of the Parliament are getting older.
On the bill and the associated documents, you said that you were a late substitute.
It is our best estimate.
The researchers will present their report to the committee.
I am happy to consider such ideas.
The key is the third theme of keeping everyone involved with learning.
Those requirements will be reinforced by health ministers through the performance and accountability review process.
For children who have very different needs, we can come up with very different solutions.
Obviously, most freight now goes by road.
The Parliament needs tax powers in order to have flexibility.
The grant total depended on local authorities spending decisions.
If they have other incomes to declare, the Inland Revenue will be aware of those.
There is no equivalent proposal in relation to Northern Ireland.
Can people on horseback use cycle tracks.
I am suggesting that we would wish to exercise audit scrutiny over those figures.
That is the kind of stuff that we need.
The framework is positive and is worthy of further exploration by the Executive.
It is slightly different in that parents are not compensated directly for school meals.
There are also issues around traditional apprenticeships.
The Scottish Government supports the industrys efforts through a range of initiatives.
I will just say that I am grateful for the opportunity to discuss the bill.
I share his hope that it will thoroughly consider taxing property and land.
The matter cannot be allowed to drag on much longer.
We will ensure that we provide that as quickly as we can.
Dennis Robertson gave us one of his characteristically stylish contributions.
I am glad that you accept that errors will be made.
He will be glad to know that we will vote for all his other amendments.
There was a smirk on the assistants face when she said, Heres another one.
There have been bits of investment in different places.
We all had a great time.
The Government has provided financial support to credit unions.
There are many differences throughout Europe if you care to look for them.
In that respect, we see the UK as a large pension company.
We can disentangle them to some degree.
I am banging the drum for that because that is what small businesses need.
However, we must not lose sight of the importance of investment in the public sector.
This approach does not have that obsession.
In Glasgow, we are trying to implement the north south crossrail link.
We now move on to the Crown estate.
Perhaps we can kick off with Mr Thomson.
Because Lynn Brown started us off, I would like to give her the final word.
We want the industry to be sustainable.
The water industry will affect peoples incomes more and more.
I agree with Iain Smiths point about the construction industry training boards.
Mike Rumbles talked about training.
I, too, thank Mr Swinney for an advance copy of his statement.
The children know that they have failed if they do not pass their exams.
That was in the emerging democracies, where self sufficiency was necessary.
However, the most recent update states We are currently finalising the expected staffing structure.
I saw that Alex Salmond arrived in China last week without his trews.
One is artificiality, which is not very relevant to the example that John Whiting cited.
Governments must recognise the need to support all the groups in society.
No, I am asking for your view.
The situation is reasonably difficult for individual local authorities.
We are reasonably relaxed about that.
I am aware that there are a couple of issues to discuss.
We have dismantled almost all of that equipment.
An obvious tax avoidance issue is involved.
I do not think that the arrangements are very robust.
There will be a division.
Of course, many will require no support at all.
It is the same as the funding of the police airwave radio system.
I leave members with that thought.
As members have copies of your submission, we will go straight to questions.
That is what we are moving towards.
That throws us all into great confusion, because I have not opened my papers.
That will still be the case in future.
Mr Mason has the last question on income tax.
When I read the paper, I found the hierarchy of regulation and consultation quite interesting.
That is a very good question.
That is the reality out there.
I will ask the question.
That is a political matter.
That situation has been widely recognised.
As I said, we will proceed to the vote.
I raised that issue with Nicol Stephen when we did the budget scrutiny.
What voters in Scotland lose is having Liberals propping up the Conservative Party in Government.
It is not a revenue Scotland cost.
Those problems should not be understated.
It was also useful to introduce a chronic health variable in addition to poverty.
Alas, we cannot guarantee it.
Do you support revaluation of domestic property.
I invite members to indicate whether they are attending the meeting as committee substitutes.
However, the problem comes at the lower end of the scale.
They are the prop for the Tory party throughout the country.
One is to halve the corporation tax rate.
As Alex Neil does, I hope that the independent review will be bold.
The police must, and do, formulate an intelligent approach to stop and search.
Let us do it page by page.
We are grateful to him for that.
I remind Jack McConnell of the importance of parliamentary votes.
The Scottish Government instigated a short consultation period on the prospect of devolving corporation tax.
That is not included in patent box tax relief as qualifying income.
Basically, the Chancellor of the Exchequer has to tell the Treasury to do it.
My point is that that is the case for any form of taxation.
It has been interesting to hear how other countries collect their tax.
One issue is helping to develop parenting skills.
I would like greater attention to be paid to that matter.
I will continue with the issue of costs and opportunities.
As the report is a private document, the committee must take the item in private.
With respect, that is not what the paper I took so long to read says.
She asked me a question.
All that progress is reflected throughout the labour market.
I presume that you also have experience of various tax authorities in the world.
There are good reasons for continuing to tax wealth, not just income.
It is an inalienable fact and cannot be denied.
Autonomy is linked to independence.
We have introduced a number of key preventive measures.
You ought to earn enough to pay for your own medical and educational needs.
He also knew that people wrote down lock codes.
The Scottish variable rate has never been exercised.
I will open up the session to colleagues.
Criminal exploitation of the internet is also growing rapidly.
Scotland has made progress under this Government.
I suspend the meeting for a moment until the next witnesses can join us.
Over recent years, many of us have spoken about areas of deprivation.
Yes, that is a lot of money.
I am glad to have obliged.
That is inextricably linked to confidence in the arrangements for handling complaints of misconduct.
When I open up the discussion to questions, any of the witnesses may answer.
I, like you, have been talking to third sector organisations.
Mr Mundell, did you wish to say something Your light flashed.
It should be about what is best for the terminally ill person and their family.
That in itself would take time to resolve.
There is a huge opportunity, which could be made more realisable by creativity on APD.
We could provide further details on the work that has been done in that area.
My message, again, to the public is to be vigilant.
That is a territorial political question.
That is the task in hand as we develop and mature in the coming months.
It could tie the industrys hands and constrain it in terms of supply.
I used to be the member of Parliament for the constituency that included Edinburgh airport.
Glasgow MSPs need to hear from the minister that Glasgow has made its own case.
There is another modern reason why you need our prayers.
No doubt, we might pick up on that issue.
That will be interesting to see.
The issue is a problem, which we are determined to tackle.
You touched on allotments, which COSLA also mentioned.
The line has been such an amazing success that an extension is proposed to Airdrie.
The Administrations costed it and introduced what was known as the solidarity charge.
We should amend the report to say that free milk should be available.
That reflects a different attitude from one of concern about national lottery funding.
Those will be based sometimes on ideology but more often on manifesto commitments.
Another issue was the registration of certain medical professionals.
Considering alternative systems at this point would be a diversion.
No, there would be nothing lost to individuals who had previously received council tax benefit.
Budgets will be central to what is proposed.
On the costs, the important thing is the figures that are being compared.
I have three or four points.
However, if possible, substantive answers should always be provided by the due date.
That is something else that we can cite to encourage other nations.
We should keep those principles in mind as part of the review.
Members may know about the Strathclyde parent prompts.
Such an arrangement was not foreseen in the work that we did in England.
I believe that it is an extremely worthwhile cause.
Other aspects of the report concern me deeply.
I am sure that Tricia Marwick will welcome that.
Members want to ask supplementary questions, but we will hear from all the panellists first.
We are playing catch up on railway investment in Scotland.
Policy on housing receipt set aside blatantly discriminates against prudent councils with low historic debt.
It is not free, if you see what I am saying.
It has gone very quiet all of a sudden.
Mike Russell is dancing on the head of a pin again.
As George Black said, every case has to be considered on its own merits.
The expertise that we have at Peterhead and elsewhere in the SPS serves us well.
Thank you very much for that.
The usual documents accompany the regulations.
The first issue is the balance between central and local funding.
As members have said, the report is to be commended.
Small business is being hit by banks.
The point about stability is key.
I will hand over to Phil to make a presentation.
Corporate tax is one of the most unstable tax revenue bases.
I want to come in on that point.
What would you do to change the current council tax system.
We will not, therefore, have to go through the procedure at every meeting.
That does not explain the variation in rates.
Perhaps it indicates that companies do not think that it is a real risk.
They see the airport strewn with other beautiful jet liners.
Let us try to agree on the bulk of them.
The Parliament does not seem to have such ambition.
The framework must also take account of the needs of areas of significant deprivation.
The council talked about a whole school approach to the use of swipe cards.
Our next set of witnesses will give us some examples.
Do you accept that that is a fair proposition.
If a tool works, we should use it.
Also at the table are people from the parliamentary research services and various clerks.
I think that that is correct.
I think that we would rather talk around the table.
Its relevance to the legislative work load of the Parliament will continue to be immense.
You mentioned something earlier that I would like you to explain further.
I know that that work is under way in the council.
I will open the meeting up to questions.
I suppose that we can get depressed at Christmas time.
There was an opportunity to give local authorities a better deal.
European and ExternalRelations Committee	Jeremy Purvis.
The Deputy First Minister will now take questions on the issues raised in her statement.
I welcome the open and realistic tone of the ministers remarks.
At the same time, we have seen the economy crumble around us.
Indeed, I do not think that one submission has said that academic work is valuable.
That is not something that has been explored this morning.
Businesses tell me clearly that they want a level playing field in that respect.
I will tell the chamber about one experience that I had.
We should use that framework to judge the autonomy of local government in Scotland.
However, we know the difficulties with means tested benefits.
As always, however, only time will tell.
Health policy comes into those things.
We are dealing with a wide range of problems and challenges.
We will scrutinise the paper, which will be part of the debate.
That takes a great deal of faith on the councils part.
I do not understand that, which is why I am asking for an explanation.
The issue of health professionals is a good one.
That applies for all companies across Scotland.
I wonder about the bigger picture.
Quite understandably, Ireland is fighting hard to hang on to that.
Not enough homes are being built to meet our needs.
They should be brief, please, as we need to move on.
Des McNulty said something similar, without using the word inquiry.
I come back to your point.
Membership of the single market is vital in securing that investment.
Getting back our legal fees would be very nice.
We require some external and independent advice to reach a solution.
Such an approach not only develops skills but provides experiential learning.
In my opinion, local elections should be held separately from national elections wherever possible.
Attitudes towards society might be more important.
It is not all discretionary.
Their efforts should be acknowledged by everyone, as they have been in the chamber.
As well as the European Committees views on doing that, we have suggested a mechanism.
I am sure that the cabinet secretary will be able to give reassurances on that.
Strathclyde Passenger Transport awaits the consultants report, which is due in the autumn.
It is important to me that employers are treated fairly.
In fact, another four people for whom no one turned up were sequestrated.
I do not know what her view is based on.
I agree that the UK is doing very badly.
I always remember that wee theory about the marginal propensity to consume.
I thought that when I called you we were well ahead in that operation.
The point is duly noted.
I do not think that there is any way to get round that.
On the SNP benches and in the Government, we agree with those sentiments.
Show us the computer systems, all the empirical evidence that you have and the pathways.
The idea will receive good support from the First Minister.
We can therefore view the model in two ways.
It would be important to do things quickly within the window of opportunity that existed.
However, we hope that the spending review will allow for a much broader focus.
The resulting report has been well received throughout Europe.
I am listening to you.
You have convinced me that it is a mess.
However, it is important that we set standards for employment conditions throughout Europe.
The other problem with accountability is the unfair and undemocratic electoral system.
You said that income tax is deflationary because it has grown slower than spending.
Mr Neil might want to switch off his microphone.
Sadly, a Caithness apprentice appears to be of less worth than a Clydebank one.
There is the unfortunate experience of the fridge mountain, which is getting larger in Scotland.
I want to return to Professor Kerleys comment about job retention in the public sector.
There are lots of questions and discussion but, essentially, three basic questions are asked.
This is the fifth time that the proposed Scottish service tax has been debated.
I very much welcome that change.
For horse riders, it is increasing car parking areas for lorries and horse transport.
I think that that is intolerable in a mature democracy.
Follow that, as they say.
No motion for annulment has been lodged.
That has changed my thinking.
The minister spent much time attacking the council in his answer.
That does not seem particularly conducive to accountability.
There is nothing new in that.
Stewart Maxwell addressed the matter directly.
I thank members for engaging so positively in the debate.
That call is valid and we support the reports emphasis on transparency and accessibility.
However, there is a gearing effect.
However, I repeat my strictures of yesterday.
Lower administration costs would be one example.
Class sizes were going to be cut immediately, but now they will not be.
That meeting must happen before the minister speaks to the Inland Revenue or anybody else.
I commend that to the cabinet secretary.
I am glad that the minister has accepted our amendment in that spirit.
They see themselves as the alpha and omega.
Angela Cullen may wish to pick up on that.
I would like the minister to consider that issue.
Our issue is the convergence of the two.
I congratulate the minister on his role in the talks.
So we agree to take that item in private.
One or two other aspects of local taxation concern me.
The convener mentioned other countries in Europe.
It is no surprise that the visitnorway.
The present system is highly complex.
As you say, HIE expects more work.
The UK Government does not intend to find itself in that position.
Professor Trench, do you think that such change is possible or likely.
The issue is on the cusp between devolved government and independence.
The member may give way if he wishes to do so.
It is up to you guys to decide where you want to get to.
There is also profit shifting to consider.
That has certainly not happened in the past.
I think that our track record shows that we have done quite the reverse.
I always have a sunny disposition, but I must push you on the issue.
Broadly speaking, I think that the Government can do that in three ways.
One wants to have a tax power only if one is able to use it.
In that regard, the expectation is weak.
It is also necessary to have enough money to do the spending.
We want a sustainable, ambitious, thriving, growing, diverse and profitable Scottish industry.
We must work with the rules that are available.
It would also depend on how the rest of the United Kingdom reacted.
Of course, it is presumably very dependent on the oil price.
They are generators for growth that attract business, innovation and, where appropriate, sustainable development.
Nigel Don has a quick point.
The NHS was not attacked, but its Windows vulnerability was targeted.
I will raise two separate issues, both of which are about best practice.
We could also address a number of other issues.
I say that quite genuinely.
It is crucial that the individual childs voice and needs are heard.
Fiona McLeod made the same point.
However, it is a double edged sword, and there is resistance from some people.
Has anyone complained about not having been consulted.
Well, that is precisely the problem.
QMV will undermine, not enhance, democratic accountability.
I have never seen so many young people going along to public meetings.
All the other options have downsides.
We envisage an open recruitment process with the post being advertised.
There is never any harm in asking, though.
]When is that likely to take place.
Sorry, I misunderstood the question.
You talked about the limited range of solutions to this problem.
I do not know whether we have already said that, but I agree.
Teachers see negatives every day in school.
I think that the minister appreciates the point.
I hope that we will each do our little bit, too.
I want to pursue three areas of questioning.
Scotland already has a particular system.
We need to think about radical solutions.
The first example that I will give is on borrowing.
I hope and am confident that the Government will welcome their input.
Three pence would be good.
There is also the question of taxpayers.
In other words, it is something like income tax plus half of VAT.
We are not getting ahead of ourselves.
There was talk about help desks, the frustration of dealing with HMRC and so on.
We will agree to disagree on that.
The Governments motion refers to high environmental standards.
I reassure Rhona Brankin that macho breast beating is simply not my style.
I am sure that other members would echo that.
However, I have concerns about how modern apprenticeships work in practice.
I want to emphasise the point that Drew Scott made.
We are keen that that should be reflected when information is made public.
Am I right in saying that.
The committees view was that there should be greater transparency.
How would the proposals affect the corporate and financial planning systems of councils in Scotland.
A decision must be taken about how much is to be raised.
There is some casual empiricism.
The member makes an important point, though.
We need to look at where we can do that and we will.
The decision to pursue a review requires the approval of the trusts management board.
He is supposed to be giving leadership and guidance.
However, it is for the politicians to decide that.
Let us become a bit more modern about this.
We will move straight to questions.
The issue is political rather than economic.
Those are transparent and will ensure that the appointment is made strictly on merit.
However, that was very short lived.
There is an argument to be made for that.
A similar question goes to Registers of Scotland.
So far, we have had no answer to that point.
However, many other countries have the power to make other charges.
We are in Europe because of such reasons.
The member referred to the athletes.
The figure for escapes in Norway is substantially lower than the figure here.
Each of us has a quick point to make.
That might mean a reduction in the available economies of scale.
Student grants and loans were going, but now they will not go.
The debate has been interesting, if not entirely unpredictable from the moment it started.
We now know that the story is true.
We cannot do that by hammering certain facts into them.
The committee has a nice list of all our activity.
It is about families, playgroups, community centres, youth clubs and groups of schools.
Latterly, Europes aim has been to take collective action on global environmental problems.
However, as I say, the relationship is new and tricky to develop.
I thought that you put the case for a local income tax eloquently, convener.
This is starting to develop into an interesting discussion.
I will open up the discussion by asking a very important general question.
Nonetheless, a rule would be helpful in such matters.
Part of my constituency effectively has dial up internet.
We even heard a hint that local income tax should be settled nationally.
It would be a bit difficult to get the money off the people in Panama.
Would we expect to find one, given how many variables are flying around.
That was our way through.
The process is symmetrical, of course.
Relevant examples are spread randomly all over the United Kingdom already.
They are impinging on peoples human dignity and independence at a basic level.
It will, however, place a hefty burden on the staff of Marie Curie Cancer Care.
They are comparable, although I am willing to accept that they are different.
I do not recognise the better figures that you suggest are coming through.
There is a local multiplier effect from people having more money in their pockets.
When you were examining local tax systems, did you look at those of other countries.
Peter Peacock asked about personal income tax as a tool of economic growth.
I am Scottish and I want Scotland to compete on the world stage.
It may be possible to take the study further.
I am sure that you would be delighted to come.
That shows how good a job the UK Government did in representing Scotland.
You talk about the loss of council tax benefit.
No, it is all right.
I believe that this Parliament and this bill will play an important role in that.
Thank you very much for inviting me.
As the question is geographically specific, I will call Keith Raffan.
The first theme of coping with change and uncertainty seems to be correctly placed.
Excise duty would be collected as it is presently collected.
So it is distributed very much in the way that we do here.
Let us go back to the recommendation on air passenger duty.
You cannot get much more fundamental than that.
If I remember correctly, the report itself makes it clear why we made those decisions.
I am pleased to support the motion.
It could become a matter of interpretation.
We have a deliberately neutral stance because our members have different views on the issue.
The current system tends to restrict investment rather than facilitate it.
It is not appropriate to refer to golden handcuffs.
We stood for election on a platform of abolishing the unfair council tax.
I hope that, in time, it will help to grow local producers capacity to respond.
If someone cannot read, it is difficult to do anything from a printed source.
At that time, we called for an urgent review of cyber security.
I do not think that the minister said anything about the right to buy.
I have a general point, which is directed to Judith Gillespie in particular.
It contains a number of typos, for which I apologise.
We are at a detailed and practical stage in the advancement of the potential projects.
For example, if it were devolved, we could reward socially and environmentally good behaviour.
We then looked at changing the multiplier.
Which would you rather have.
It tells us that when the minister says could he is speculating wildly.
However, any reduction in the number of cases is surely welcome.
Do you see that as a solution.
What a shame that would be.
I welcome the ministers opening remarks about the importance of corporate parenting.
We have to do something to increase the number and size of businesses in Scotland.
He was right to do so, and I also acknowledge Stewart Stevensons speech.
It also identified other problems in respect of communication with them.
Thank you very much for inviting us today.
It is a good job that I did not do that.
That is a challenging question.
There is a fundamental problem in the UK.
I will give way after pursuing my point.
Very largely, that expertise now lies in Aberdeen.
Could you comment on that.
There is no way out of that.
The issue is not just changes in demography.
I thank the member for her promotion of me to the Cabinet.
Those who took up traditional apprenticeships were originally known as journeymen.
Getting that level of detail would be difficult.
Margo MacDonald made some valid points in that connection.
I thank the First Minister for that reply.
Why do you feel that that is the case.
I ask him to keep a close eye on the situation.
There needs to be greater dialogue and understanding.
Accessibility is an area that is constantly developing and changing.
Several options exist, but the status quo is not one of them.
The second issue that was raised is the lack of information.
I appreciate that, but the member interjected and I was responding to his interjection.
That was warmly welcomed by Mrs Robinson and non governmental organisations.
Local decisions were at the margins, within the limits set by central Government.
I consider myself to be well off.
I conclude the public part of the meeting.
I thought that I had a nice surprise there for a minute.
We are investing in businesses, communities and infrastructure across the islands.
I therefore refute what Emma Harper said.
The member is suggesting that an additional income tax should be collected by local authorities.
Different levels of government should not set different rates of land tax.
It is true that the industry has, at times, struggled to overcome negative public perceptions.
Yes, because it states an opinion.
That seems a cart before the horse argument.
That has been the level of the debate.
If there is information, people do not know how to access it.
The Scottish Football Association has made perfectly clear its position on a GB football team.
The Treasury would remain responsible solely to the UK Government.
I said yes the first time, so I will say yes again.
The SNP says that we cannot be patriotic and remain part of the United Kingdom.
We do not celebrate that consistent quality enough, nor do we assert that proposition enough.
I have examined Barcelona in considerable depth.
In answer to Sandra Whites question, you mentioned the use of bank finance.
The question then is whether we just recalibrate and start again with a new adjustment.
I have worked for businesses.
I will bring in Derek Mackay quickly on that point.
Many a struggle there was to get it going, but now we have it.
Undoubtedly it represents a constitutional step.
You have been studying the experiences of overseas Chinese students.
I will come to ring fencing in a moment.
There are two answers to the argument.
In your submission, you state Women have been treated poorly by the UK pension regime.
However, that involves a cost in relation to litigation, court proceedings and so on.
That is a positive story, which I am sure all members welcome.
In both instances, the result is delays in people seeking help for mental health problems.
Given the economic climate, it is uncertain whether that will be forthcoming.
They would be returned and I would find that I had forgotten a comma.
Then I will open up the meeting for questions.
But we are still givers rather than receivers.
That is a good point at which to begin.
I call Margo MacDonald, to be followed by Stewart Maxwell.
We chorused quickly that we hoped that it would not be.
Yes, there is no arguing over that.
We talked about the fundamental principles.
Well, I do not take it as such.
What is COSLAs position on the bill as a means of doing that.
We have to consider that situation and a paper would enable us to do that.
The issue is partly about how we view the role of local government.
Would an extra corporate tax be a disadvantage in attracting companies to locate in Europe.
However, I think that everybody would be very pleased that it has.
The arguments against the Scottish Parliament were well known and well rehearsed.
From time to time, there have been initiatives on that in the Government.
That said, if you get richer, you must also have grown along the way.
] Anything George Adam can do, I can do better.
There appears to be a conflict, which must be dealt with.
If you want, I will go away and then answer the questions later.
Almost all members could do this.
Psychological therapies are a good example in that context.
Grampian has the second lowest number of dentists per head of population in Scotland.
Members have talked about that issue today.
The dialogue continues as constructively as possible.
I understand that point of principle.
It is very much appreciated and will help us in our deliberations on the bill.
Are you not being pessimistic.
I thought it was excellent and I loved the uproar after the debate.
That is a good question.
That issue must be addressed.
I have even brought some fudge.
We looked at our terms of reference and the evidence that came before us.
No European Union presidency seems to want to take on the budget review.
My second point returns to what I mentioned at the outset of this discussion.
We hope that she will be back with us soon.
For poverty is surely not a part of the nature of things.
We want to ensure that they have the chance to do so at this stage.
I allowed a little extra time so that I could get everyone in.
If that is the case, it must look at designating more national parks in Scotland.
The regulator currently has a big footprint in Aberdeen.
It took several years for her to be accepted as a patient by specialist services.
We sometimes think that the Government has to do everything.
One hopes that more of them can become more positive.
Education and prevention are also vital issues.
Glasgow has also set up a council of young people.
The definition of next generation broadband in use by the Government needs to be clarified.
The minister mentioned the wet weather.
Ministers are caught in the headlights.
Maintaining effective government and ensuring equity are also important.
We have a new Gaelic channel on television that we did not have before.
If you do not have that, you will have what you have at the moment.
It is a good example of the general trade off that you face.
It examined the impact on Scotland of increasing taxation and expenditure at the same time.
I do not follow the logic of that.
We went through everything and I said that schools quite often compensate for dyslexic youngsters.
We will consider that paper further with the business sector.
We have heard about cost shunting issues.
I am entirely comfortable with people being against our propositions.
However, there is no such imperative at this time.
Everyone wants to see some change in the way in which local government is financed.
We are trying to cast our budget as best we can to do that.
What are the possibilities and why was the programme described as amber.
The model will be not a non profit model, but a with profit model.
We have a notoriously complicated tax system.
We want to have the right to control the corporation tax regime for Scotland.
Thank you very much, Mr Gray.
We have not come to the medium point, yet.
Let us just think about that.
The process badly needs review and has done for quite a long time.
It turns out that there are lots of such areas.
It is divided according to the geology of certain rocks.
There must be social work, health visitor and drug specialist involvement from that early stage.
If you use borrowing, the problem goes away.
It is in all our interests to get this right.
Some organisations have described it as a pensioner tax.
I see little evidence that there will be any significant change.
 That sums up the position.
We do not want this mornings discussion to lead to further delay.
We will continue, but you are free to leave.
We are taking steps to remedy the problem.
I do not know whether I am supposed to declare an interest.
Anything else should be additional to that.
Another matter is the fluctuations that might occur in business rate income.
I immediately concede that the national environment introduces some special factors.
We appreciate that this is a no win game.
Further to my earlier point of order, Presiding Officer.
Oral skills are a necessary component of language studies.
I do not know whether it has been published yet.
What would be the impact of that and its cost to Glasgow.
However, only four members of the action group were there.
To ask the Scottish Executive when its Cabinet will next discuss engagement with Europe.
I have been consistent throughout.
We have not decided that at this stage.
We view that as being essential to guaranteeing the independence and authority of the post.
Issues such as interpersonal distribution are best tackled at local or member state level.
For people who come here on business, time is money.
For years, May was one of Edinburghs most troublesome characters.
We have amended the bill to facilitate that possibility in the future.
I certainly could not find the proposal at the time.
However, COSLA is quite happy to leave that to national Government.
It is very unlikely that the Scottish barley crop will be totally decimated by disease.
I ask members to keep within the time limits.
Nicky Harrison will deal with that question.
Many of the steps that are being taken now are precautionary.
If they want to ask questions, they are allowed to do so.
We will never get them to agree.
There is an additional cost in time and money.
The first is about identifying income.
Some will rise faster than public spending and some will rise slower.
They certainly do not want to go back to the old school system.
Yesterday, I attended a conference on physical education and the physical activity task force.
There is a shared desire to get the arrangements up and running and working properly.
Great concern was caused to council tax payers and businesses.
We are now fourth in the league table for the whole UK.
Let me see if I can disentangle that amazing question.
I apologise for missing the opening minutes of the debate.
You have summarised the evidence that we heard earlier today effectively.
That is where the Scottish Futures Trust comes in.
I apologise for keeping you late.
Pensioners who are not in acute poverty would certainly be very much worse off.
I wonder what advice and assurance the First Minister would give.
No member had better accuse me of ever wanting to withdraw from the EU.
I remind all those present to turn off mobile phones, tablets and other electronic devices.
That relates to one of the fundamental problems that we have found in fiscal change.
I will be delighted to do that.
More recently, that appears not necessarily to have been the case.
We also suggest that there should be more short, strategic laws.
Am I being told to stop, Presiding Officer.
Those gates are not a problem.
However, he acknowledged implicitly that the reality will involve some cuts in services.
The Executive has said that it will help.
There are reasons for that.
The Scottish National Party need not laugh, because it is in the same sinking boat.
We are nervous about that, as you might expect.
I have set out some very important principles.
That said, teachers have to want to be trusted.
The approach that we are taking will help self directed support.
I invite members who wish to speak to press their request to speak buttons.
They have been mobile and they have come to Scotland.
That is a matter of public record.
The Conservatives were at it and Labour has been at it.
That is a fairly simple way of doing it.
PPP is delivering substantial improvements to public services throughout Scotland.
I apologise for the weight of papers that I have submitted.
I definitely believe that the matched funds should be time limited.
Thank you for your evidence, which, as always, was interesting and thorough.
The debate has been consensual and is extremely important to me and other members.
My colleague Nicol Stephen will expand on that if time allows.
That appears to have exhausted the questions from the committee.
They are not the service transformation that the minister has promised.
The second priority group is part time students.
For those reasons, they do not deserve the support of the Parliament today.
If, however, the base is expanded, there will be a gain to Scotland.
We move to open debate.
It is an important body.
That is an entirely inappropriate statement to make.
The document is a research paper on the background statistics on housing supply in Scotland.
A trust model would not change that requirement in any way.
The committee has begun to develop links with similar regions across Europe.
We will pursue options B and C on the briefing note about the petition.
The sustainable management of community facilities rests with the community bodies that run them.
One of the continuing challenges in the industry is to consider those issues.
Thus far, Communities Scotland has failed to do so.
Licensing reform over the past few years has significantly improved standards in pubs across Scotland.
The Executive is well aware of what are simply outline proposals.
That will not get you an extra question.
You covered the matter in response to Michael McMahons questioning.
That debate, ultimately, will fail.
I look forward to seeing that output.
I am not here to express constitutional preferences.
We have heard enough from the Liberals today.
It was also good to see that the distribution grant formula is to be addressed.
The minister began by saying that he was open to suggestions.
I have read the evidence that the committee heard.
There is an interesting contrast between those two approaches.
I agree with the minister that resources are not the key driver in the issue.
The evidence of what happened in Ireland in that regard is very compelling.
However, local authorities have the ability to raise charges and additional fees.
I am sure it is a pity, but they just do not exist.
It is certainly an improvement.
The proportion that is raised locally sharpens that accountability.
Edinburgh certainly might have that problem.
Perhaps they should now be rolled out across the country.
I have to compete with the owner occupiers, who do not pay rent.
I am moving on, because we have had enough of this.
Everything that I have said is designed to encourage you to go down that direction.
That will add to the volatility of receipts.
You have about two minutes, Mr Lyon.
We must always remain vigilant.
The minister has said that she has set the objective.
If the Parliament has that radical edge, we should use it.
Arguably, the UK Government does not do that hugely, especially within England.
I welcome this debate on the long term plans for infrastructure investment in Scotland.
However, the fact is that the two sides of the argument are in opposition.
What do you think about the accuracy of its predictions.
There was me being consensual, too.
However, when you talked about knowing where the accountability is, you clarified the position.
The papers might be a bit dense but they are quite short.
Something would have to be done.
I will then open up the meeting for questions.
A basket of taxes could be used.
That needs to be tested with the market.
I am considering the issue carefully and I am taking advice on it.
Borders do not exist in the electronic world.
Equipping young people with another language might open many doors for their future.
Instead, he was described as cranky and miserable.
In many cases, councils have brought in council taxes below that target.
That is in the report.
The reverse used to be the case in Quebec.
We look forward to hearing your evidence.
Scottish ministers should aim to maximise our influence in Europe.
I thank the new minister for his response.
There are two points there.
It is a continual process of change and fix.
Colleagues will now ask questions on other areas.
We have a different culture.
Again, I would be interested to hear the ministers views on that.
Those circumstances are very different from the ones that exist now.
I have not come to this question late in the day.
I will make proposals shortly.
The Liberal Democrats are committed to strong, autonomous local government.
Other members are similarly restricted.
Many members want to speak in the debate, so I will not take long.
The Government must be honest with the Parliament.
If that is the case, a prudential borrowing regime is entirely consistent with that aspiration.
Set aside for receipts was abolished some time ago for projects other than housing.
The public sector should be no different to mainstream corporations in that regard.
There is another serious issue.
Keith Harding is referring to a zoning of land, not a planning application.
That was her word, not mine.
I can see lots of heads nodding.
It would be discourteous of us not to do that.
I am sure that it has been duly noted by the Scottish Government as well.
I say that in the paper.
I will not tell you who it was, but so far they have managed.
I ask the minister to ensure that, when we discuss housing, we also discuss planning.
It is a complex area.
I am surprised that that information was not shared with the committee.
Moving to speeches from other members, I think that Mary Scanlons contribution was generally positive.
We have guarantees that there will not be such imports.
John Farquhar Munro does not agree.
Mike Rumbles mentioned the Edinburgh dental school.
We might get to some of the detail on that later.
I want to make one point in response to Tommy Sheridans speech.
I accept Mr Swinneys point.
My colleague Carolyn Leckie will elaborate on another point that we must address.
The committee will not meet again until after the recess.
Will the minister take an intervention on that point.
The GAE mechanism was listed as an associated issue in our remit.
It is about dealing with the risk more efficiently.
Needless to say, I do not agree with the minister.
My colleague, John Swinney, hit the button when he explained why the system is unfair.
No ones needs assessment is ever adequate.
It is a separate fund.
That really will take some explaining to the people of Scotland.
Times have probably changed, however.
Under the new Labour Tories, life is more unequal.
I believe that, in commissioning the research, the committee had a role to play.
Economists, and even certain housing associations, could not have predicted that.
We are talking about greater efficiency savings and greater cuts.
It is important that we do not overlook that.
I was thinking in particular of the transactions tax on property.
We have likewise been giving evidence to the Finance Committee.
On behalf of the committee, I record our thanks to the clerks.
It is up to the committee to decide what we will do with the petition.
The minister anticipated the point that I am coming to.
I remind you that the commission finished two years ago.
I would junk it straight away.
That will depend entirely on what the committee decides today.
Today, we heard the ultimate  Mr Sheridan wants to promote fiscal flight.
I congratulate Jim Hume on securing this very important debate.
I am aware of those points.
We know that that policy is making a difference.
However, we agree that the council tax system will have to be tweaked.
We seem to pile regulations on top of regulations.
If the motion is passed, Neil Gerrards bill will be extended to Scotland.
You may say something and the committee will then ask questions.
I do not think that we are getting anywhere.
I welcome Sir Kenneth Calman of the Calman commission.
However, that five of them had to train in England is shocking.
They are a major constituency that the Government continually fails to address.
There are three questions to be put as a result of todays business.
I also feel some of what Rob Gibson referred to asdéjà vu all over again.
Lots of fields have been discovered, but they are not economic.
I can give you chapter and verse on that, if you would like.
Of course, when Scots succeed at the Olympic level, others take the credit.
I would, however, like to give him some comparisons.
I did not think that you had just flown in from a beach.
I think that I might be slightly older than Moira Kelly.
Let me set out the facts.
I am slightly confused by that.
I will go back to first principles for a moment.
They should stop using that excuse to paper over the cracks in the coalition.
I am looking at the Scottish economy and at increasing the population of businesses here.
We are all, therefore, keen that the project should happen.
Can you come to the point.
I share Murray Toshs view about the committees job being to deal with the petition.
It was just that John Nugée mentioned the Government and transition.
At the moment, does illegal waste have to be moved somewhere else.
It is also the main airport serving the North American and leisure markets.
Two members of the committee require to declare relevant interests.
That is the bit that matters.
Access to housing for local people has also been a problem.
It contains no basis in truth whatsoever.
People pay their council tax, as they pay their income tax, out of their income.
I have been stressing the need for negotiation because of the timescales.
Councils are being asked to do more, but with an almost standstill grant.
For me, that was one of the most pioneering bits of work.
We heard about tax expertise being pretty much centralised in London.
The consultants are considering those.
That highlights the need to secure an extra dental school.
Our focus has been on income tax, but one can also discuss other taxes.
I think that that is the case.
I shall, but let me just finish.
I am very committed to working with those delivery partners across all those areas.
However, that could be a really important issue to understand.
I can make that submission available to committee members.
We do not want a tax system that biases how the economy behaves.
I welcome the open appointment process as detailed in the bill.
Parliament should provide support for such uses of the mechanism.
I have also discussed the issue directly with the UK ministers responsible.
The next item of business is consideration of a financial resolution.
I look forward to his having an opportunity to study the information.
Secondly, the report states that the bill would damage the Scottish economy.
You are here as an economist.
The riders want the path to be reinstated.
I hope that all parties will feel able to support the amendment at decision time.
Microsoft has been mentioned a few times.
My concern about the Labour amendment is the wording about funding.
There is now no confusion.
That raises the whole question of how we tackle poverty.
We have yet to see whether quality will improve.
I ask Brian Adam to begin our questioning.
Examples are important, because real people look for them.
The question is what should replace it.
Her constituency, and Scotland, is a sadder place as a result of her passing away.
If we were to become independent, would you call on Scotland to reverse that decision.
The bill creates a flexible framework to secure the future of the Gaelic language.
We have also created an all age career service and supported business creation and entrepreneurship.
I reconvene the meeting and welcome everyone back.
There are two elements to the tax  corporation tax and income tax on individual pensioners.
In the bill and the command paper, we have produced a good package for Scotland.
The move away from inputs and towards outputs and outcomes can change the mindset.
That initiative is preventing health and housing issues from arising.
For me, that is a problem.
Far from increasing capacity for bikes on trains, Abellio is cutting it on key routes.
We are not joining things up particularly well.
On many winter sailings across the Pentland Firth, passenger numbers are very low.
Such a proposition is not part of the six demands that have been brought forward.
You mentioned relative need as the issue.
We have always said that this is a fantastic opportunity.
I welcome the comments of the Princess Royal Trust for Carers about the proposal.
I will interrupt you there, Mr McLetchie.
Some of your recommendations covered the question of re reserving things.
As part of the process, we want to turn that arrangement on its head.
I call Jackson Carlaw, who has approximately six minutes.
There will be winners and losers with any change to the allocation.
I welcome you both to the committee.
Let me finish the point.
If Scotland remains in the UK, there must be negotiation.
We also took some evidence about what the electorate thinks.
Something would have caused concern between us and the Scottish Government about that before then.
It is in the report.
Mr Macdonald, please draw to a conclusion.
We can all do a bit more and all the partners recognise that.
We must be precise about what no detriment means.
We are happy to endorse with enthusiasm the principles of the bill.
I want accountability and I think that figures should be produced regularly.
I look forward to that engagement and to a multilateral attempt to address those concerns.
Some of the more detailed reforms that could be undertaken echo what the bill proposes.
The current system of council tax does not take into account adequacy.
To just keep saying something does not make it true.
Changes have been made to simplify it in years two and three.
These things have been discussed by tax people.
It is an interesting issue.
The question is whether that is enough.
If we are to consider fully opencast mining, we should look at them together.
However, the picture in Scotland is mixed with regard to bike rail integration.
My argument then leads to two possible candidates for significant revenue instruments for local government.
I do not see much that is relevant to that agenda, if I am honest.
We will get an opportunity to discuss that later.
More processed salmon is being eaten.
We are preparing them to take part in the society that they will create.
The committees report, the commissioners report and any relevant evidence will also be published.
This is the first time that I have made such a presentation.
As we all know, there are growing demands on the health service.
Its purpose was to assess the costs of the policy.
I take your comments on board.
First of all, I did not use the word reckless.
Such a system is more expensive and more time consuming than the banding system.
Therefore, the bill provides an opportunity to begin to change.
It is good news that we are working in sync on some issues.
No reviews, no task forces, no inquiries.
We must move away from secondary schools seeing themselves as the starting point.
Another area that I am interested in is the extra cost for SEPA.
We will adhere to that commitment.
We must accept that the ministers announcement represented a move forward.
I stress that we have no preconceived view on what the outcome should be.
Under our proposals, LVT would allow greater local accountability and democracy for Scotland.
As far as I can see, they are expressing only one view.
That could apply at several geographical levels.
I am very much aware of the problems with the council tax.
Overplacing children with foster parents places an undue burden and expectation on those foster parents.
I represent the Highlands and Islands, where there are a range of housing issues.
I think that the committee called it a practical vision for the future.
As I indicated, we neither support nor oppose the introduction of minimum unit pricing.
I think that that is clear in my mind.
It would have been, but the demands on households expenditure are all different.
Of course, it is not an exact science.
Finally, there is the proposal in the UK white paper promising no detriment.
However, I would like to take further advice before confirming that that is the position.
I am more than happy to consider that suggestion and to take it forward.
We are not claiming that those people live in poverty.
Is that the experience of other jurisdictions internationally.
The panellists heard the spending review announcements last week.
I am pleased to take part in the debate.
In future, the real resistance to abolishing the CAP will come from those countries.
I would like a brief answer from each of you.
We were unconvinced by that argument.
On an issue as fundamental as this, we need basic facts.
However, you argue that the main system for collecting money should remain the council tax.
It was a stretch target.
If you are seriously putting forward the proposition, we need to know the figures.
The suggestion that local authorities are a mass of inefficient government is simply not true.
Which risk are you referring to.
That is a matter for practical judgment.
We need to be sure that any changes we make are appropriate.
That is because there are so many interest groups.
My constituency has been heavily affected by that.
I welcome its representatives Ewan Jeffrey and Jolin Warren to the public gallery.
The committee also considered non domestic business rates.
That is the story that the SNP continues to peddle.
I shall make two points at the outset.
If members agree to my amendment, we will not be the first to complain.
I think the opposite is true.
The council was drawn together and announced last month, and it will meet in January.
No matter what Governments do, that will always happen.
Nevertheless, we are having an on going dialogue on the matter.
I have no views on that.
Councils are being encouraged to increase development opportunities.
The trend in international tax regimes is that corporation tax is reducing.
Those are very desirable elements of the process.
Bob Doris referred to the Princess Royal Trust for Carers.
Given such considerations, how well does the current UK taxation system serve Scotland.
I do indeed recognise Susan Deacons concerns about the position in Lothian.
That is absolute nonsense in this day and age.
However, as the consultation document points out, that is not always what happens.
And that we need more doctors and nurses.
We then get the debate, followed, I hope, by agreement and then legislation.
I apologise for having missed those two publications.
It is important to think about the consequences of reducing corporation tax.
Of course taxation should in general terms be related to the means to pay.
I asked you to highlight the findings from your research, which you have done.
You should be winding up now, Mr Ballard.
Police officers in Scotland will not be routinely equipped with Taser guns.
Passenger activity is greater than people allow for.
Its economic, social and personal impacts can be, and often are, devastating.
I congratulate the European Committee on compiling the report, which took six months hard work.
I have no complaints about the acts provisions on access, which were well intentioned.
We have slipped quite considerably in recent times.
The current balance sheet treatment is a driver for PFI and PPP.
I come back to my answer to your previous question.
It says that the council tax should not be replaced by a local income tax.
Let me give an example of how the issue concerns the environment.
Having only anecdotal evidence about licensing is not good enough.
That has made me wonder about the BDA in Scotland.
The issue of benefit entitlement levels will have been raised.
Hugh Henry was right on many issues.
The Conservatives are happy to support the motion.
That would get you the extra revenue.
Often, the particular instance needs to be thought about.
I suppose that the most obvious one is our multi agency domestic abuse response team.
You mentioned the question mark against Ability to Pay.
However, I have a question for the minister.
They were both positive and tried to move the debate forward.
I have spoken about the private legislation powers that are available to the Parliament.
That depends on how you define skills.
Such projects take up a lot of officials time.
The bill will ensure that the Scottish Parliament has no truck with such behaviour.
We live in a democracy.
That is the balancing game that we are playing.
Norway is not in terrible trouble, because it has done exactly what Professor Kemp suggested.
I do not know whether that will come into your answer.
The current Government produced its proposals.
In the meantime, a maintenance programme for HMP Peterhead will continue.
I have nothing more to add to my answer.
I will make a few comments about the oft referred to employability framework.
That is why we have a backlog.
A couple of other members want to get in.
Other countries do much better in this area.
I am pleased to be here on this historic day for the Gaels.
There is a busy year ahead for us all.
Is it those dramatic changes in forecast that set the alarm bells ringing.
Our view has not changed.
There is similar representation from bodies in England.
She is getting impatient just sitting there.
Members will have an up to date copy of the report.
The committee will debate the two motions separately.
No doubt, that is part of the reason why I have the new appointment.
For example, Mr Peacock mentioned the protection of shellfish waters.
We should be ensuring that children have access to as many loving homes as possible.
It does, however, include a calculation for meals.
That visit will be an opportunity to engage in the debate further.
That is the major problem with the way in which the present tax system works.
Again, in common with birth, there has to be genuine choice in death.
We could have a short, sharp, focused inquiry.
I set up my office to help the industry locally.
However, if we have that spend, the question is how we marry it up.
That is quite a surprising revelation.
There are two circumstances and three models.
The situation in rural areas is totally different.
I do not think that it would.
Such facilities also exist in other institutions within the SPS.
From a local government point of view, Scotland Excel is now responsible for construction procurement.
I am happy to meet her at any time to discuss the important issues.
However, in the Highlands, the quarries are often not near a community.
Dentistry is becoming quantity driven, rather than quality driven.
Therefore, the secondary drillers have moved in.
The impact of being NEET can be devastating.
We need to get that message across to countries that are holding back.
So far, we do not have that.
There is a continuing place for special schools in our education system.
That would be entirely the wrong message for members.
Much has changed in the interim.
All those responses have come in.
I accept that, but would you welcome publication.
I hope that the cabinet secretary will use the national framework to change that.
I go back to what I said earlier.
You saved me pointing that out myself, convener.
We are talking about very vulnerable people.
Did you read the financial memorandum.
I should explain why I opposed so many of my committee colleagues ideas.
Parsons Peebles was going to shut down.
It enables borrowing for infrastructure purposes.
I have presented the committee with a paper.
I can understand the case for that.
It should not be based on some other, exogenous element.
It relates only to earnings.
You mentioned that the risk lies with the subcontractors, rather than with the council.
The reports on Ireland to which you refer are nearly a decade out of date.
That is the purpose of the bill.
Our argument is that the Learning and Teaching Scotland document does not teach citizenship.
That clarifies what we are talking about.
We did not put a figure on capital borrowing.
One advantage is the access to information that they provide.
The councils position is that there is still strong support for the council tax system.
To rectify the situation, we need to do several things.
The comparison with Stansted has been made by several members.
Like other witnesses, you are obviously interested in the balance between central and local funding.
You have up to six minutes, please.
It is time for the Executive to act.
With the council tax, revaluations are logically necessary.
Two Liberal Democrat members have been undermined by the ministers comments this morning.
The submissions say that there are increased pressures on personal social care.
I am sorry to keep repeating myself.
However, the feed in tariff scheme is reserved to Westminster.
I ask members and the public to switch off all electronic devices.
We can talk about it in the private part of the meeting.
I am in my last minute.
My final point is one that I made earlier.
It is also important to build a consensus for major tax reform.
They seem to be talking about a fixed amount, which is up for discussion.
Do members have any more comments Has Jamie Hepburn missed anything.
Our reporters have been working diligently throughout the summer recess and will continue that exercise.
Scottish Environment LINK argues that it is too soon to introduce permanent site consents.
I took careful note of the figures and examples that Mr Neil quoted.
That should not be too much to ask, but currently the differences are stark.
It takes no account of age, as council tax does.
We should have a two pronged approach.
We should value the fact that we have the opportunity to express such a viewpoint.
But the money comes from the general tax pot, which is progressive.
The assessments are as cloudy as the witches brew in Macbeth.
Which option do you advocate.
We will publish the local government overview for the present year in February.
Mr Pearson, you have up to five minutes.
However, he used his quotes from Mr Lyon most effectively.
There will be a substantial increase in the powers here in Edinburgh.
Let us get back to the Scotland Bill, which is a Westminster proposal.
I am sure that he will welcome it when it happens.
I thank the witnesses for giving evidence.
I think that you have partly answered your own question.
So, there is a geographical and sectoral bias in relation to corporation tax.
I presume that there will be on going dialogue with local authorities.
Currently, distillers can use cereals from any source to make whisky.
Most issues have been covered, but I will touch on two matters.
The police constable and the nursery nurse will pay less.
That would be a big mistake.
Our figures came from Visit Scotlands website.
We and the industry are concerned about inconsistencies in the approach to planning.
On the basics, you are already out there finding illegal sites.
In the UK, we are typically not allowed to use the word federal.
The list is important, and it is important that the Parliament introduced it.
How can we go about achieving that Is finance part of that.
I would be content to leave that to the market to judge.
There were three significant issues in the newspapers at the weekend.
They should all be commended.
A recent example is the feedback from another airline, on a European route.
We acknowledge that all forms of taxation have perceived disadvantages.
The fact that the referendum was deemed to have been conducted fairly was integral.
We hoped that the inequitable distribution system would be addressed.
Urgent measures are needed if NHS dentistry is to survive in Scotland.
The council is strongly behind the project and is unlikely to be dithering unnecessarily.
However, we need rigorous data.
We will continue to push forward with that work.
We will make better use of the resources that we have.
How does fiscal drag relate to that.
I have background evidence, which I will not provide today.
Transco has not indicated how many jobs will be lost in Scotland.
I spoke to one of your next witnesses about that before I sat down.
That links into the issue of local government accountability, which I think is very confused.
You also suggest that central Government might offer matched funding in such circumstances.
There are two important differences that perhaps did not come out in previous discussions.
Therefore, to suggest that it had been sent was clearly wrong.
Cycle tourism is a significant contributor to the local economy.
We do not have a clue.
I thank the minister for his statement.
It is a shared equity scheme, which builds on the success of the homestake programme.
Ample legal opinion from a range of sources has been cited.
We have been sympathetic to and welcome many of the innovations in the report.
That is exactly what has happened.
We could also reconsider the council tax benefit system.
It is obvious that others are already aware of the paper.
I have a couple of closing points to make.
I know that the turnout has gone down further in recent years.
I would really like the minister to clarify that.
Intergovernmental relations within the UK are best handled within the UK fiscal system.
However, it also represents a genuine economic, and perhaps wider, threat.
Will you comment on that, please.
It is therefore imperative that we work closely with dentists to promote better dental hygiene.
That is not surprising, given his professional background as a campaigner for a homelessness charity.
There is a role for a strong scrutiny body.
It is something for which we have to plan.
As I have said to others, we might have to call you back.
There were huge vacancy lists.
As economists, we think about that question quite a lot.
At the moment, there is a variety of ways of supervising toothbrushing.
We were, however, given assurances that everything was being taken into account.
Perhaps the worst failure is the failure to enhance preventive services.
So, there is a use there.
I will move away from pensions.
If those regulations were re reserved, that might cause some difficulties.
I mean Strathclyde Regional Council revisited.
No, they do not have to.
We find it impossible to be so, because we all work for particular authorities.
Scotland learns from Ireland, but it also often competes with Ireland.
I think that Mr Raines has made that pretty clear.
I am just giving the ladies kindly advice on the matter.
I believe that Malcolm Chisholm, the Minister for Communities, is committed to achieving equal pay.
They are not people who came out of our rather good Scottish universities.
He has lobbied weekly to ensure that members attended and I wanted to support him.
And you do not know about the capital costs.
Although it does not happen in my constituency, I know that concerns exist.
Does Professor Heady wish to comment.
Well, we are all getting older.
There is broad agreement and clarity on residence and the definition of Scottish taxpayers.
I welcome Sylvia Jackson to the committee.
We are also looking at the outcomes for vulnerable children.
You refer to research in a footnote to that paragraph.
This is his big chance.
The Scottish Government proposes that the bareboat charter tax must be reversed.
Therefore, we may look forward to a better system in the future.
Your evidence has been very helpful to our inquiry.
The national scheme protects councils from such fluctuation and the possibility of reduced income.
I accept his arguments, but he also mentioned physical activity.
Those are both laudable aims.
Many positive ideas have come out of the report.
That is why monitoring of the strategies is important.
Scottish Enterprise has recently implemented a huge increase in its overseas staff.
I think that there is.
I will make three points.
You are hopeful about your smiley faces.
I spent the week before last on the west coast of America, visiting various companies.
If we do not have control over the dividends, does that create a problem.
However, we recognise that additional funding might be required in the future.
I just hope that I understood you.
We should move on from income tax to corporation tax.
However, your petition is concerned with the national situation and not just that local situation.
First, let me be clear about the objectives of this programme of reform.
Todays debate is about the double whammy that faces local authorities across Scotland.
That has been most helpful.
Of course we need to take a commonsense, flexible approach.
We might evaluate it or we might not.
I should first declare an interest in relation to Glasgow region, which I represent.
Throughout the UK, youngsters are determined to benefit from the Olympics.
That is where the commission was at the time.
We do not believe the SNPs figures.
That is an important point.
In our view, it is pretty clear that that would happen.
The answer to that question is yes.
This debate is about the future viability of charitable organisations.
A totally unchecked, unregulated environment for the individual delivers anarchy.
That system is beginning to fray a little, certainly in Sweden.
We do it in a cost effective way.
I will close with a version of the city of Glasgows motto, Let Glasgow flourish.
I thought that this was an inquiry on local government finance.
What do you expect the timetable to be, if you go ahead.
They have also failed to bridge the gap between health and social care.
I am very glad that you have found the subject interesting.
For a number of years, councils have been pressing for stability.
That is one of the questions that we would like to know the answer to.
There are various ways in which it could be done.
I agree with much of what was said earlier on.
We were both members of the former Highland Regional Council and then the Highland Council.
I realise that that is a big question.
We hope that our approach will improve market interest.
The critical point for the council is the terms of the contract.
I hesitate to mention your previous paper, given the reaction to it.
However, I am not sure that changing the structure is necessary in this case.
We often use the term federal, which covers a multitude of arrangements in different countries.
We hope that the European Union will endure considerably longer than the UK union will.
The reconciliation must be factored in.
In many areas, that has led to general practitioners completely disengaging from CHPs.
I have nothing to add.
I am even pleased that the minister has accepted some of the committees proposals.
I do not really accept your assumption that our circumstances are fundamentally different.
Again, I agree with Shona Robison that we do not discuss the issue often enough.
It has six themes and they are not all about skills.
That has included developing new degree courses.
Corporation tax also has an impact on certain sectors and headquartering.
I do not think that the Swiss would necessarily agree with that.
I will certainly ensure that our department pays close attention to ensuring that that happens.
I think that the term was used as such in the Steel commission report.
A country can be small and wealthy.
I am disappointed with the answer that the minister gave on that issue.
I am happy that it is such a fortunate coincidence, though.
Others probably have more expertise than I have on domestically headquartered companies.
At some point, that will change.
Those are the benefits that Scotland has as part of the United Kingdom.
The use of PPPs is one way.
There are at least two other, equally important, factors.
Staff and visitors alike can do their bit to save patients from infection.
Climate change compels us to act globally, in a unified manner.
Like Mark McDonald, I hope that that will occur.
Could you confirm for the record that the Poverty Alliance was consulted on the bill.
When changes work through the system, all sorts of counterbalances come into play.
It is an old idea.
The money that we provide through the GAE is allocated under the formula.
That is about better wages and, for young people, it is about equality of pay.
Have I answered your question.
They do not address some of the fundamental questions.
There are a host of reasons for that.
Again, we called for a review of cyber security.
We are currently on a cycle of weekly meetings.
Perhaps that is a long winded way of saying that a balance must be achieved.
Professor McLean presented evidence last week.
Many experts say that it will increase climate change.
We have a Scottish Parliament.
That was because of all the other links around the oil issue.
I disagree with him on one point, however.
We feel that we could benefit from something like that.
Thank you for that introduction.
You can cite other years when that would not be the case.
We recognised that action by the council was urgently required.
They called it the language of the Maws, or the country people.
I shall refer this discussion to them.
Again, we took that point.
How do you resist such an emphasis on systems and structures.
That is a reasonable summary.
We want to move from central control to local safeguards.
However, improving our countrys oral health is not just about more money and more dentists.
David Bell, over to you.
I think the minister for an advance copy of his statement.
As we have heard, the consequences of that could be catastrophic.
That refers back to what I was saying just a minute ago.
I have undying respect for Macmillan nurses and general practitioners, who are so often forgotten.
They used those drawings to design jewellery, which is displayed in the school.
Work is continuing to explore this further.
Do you feel that the budget will help to advance those industries.
It is sad that there no longer seem to be seasons for our food.
It is a difficult job, as you can understand.
There are obvious issues about communicating to the voters what is going on.
We all cherish and admire the health service.
That is commonplace in mainstream court arrangements.
The first estimate of new activity is additional compliance activity.
I am not a geologist or an economist, but a lawyer.
An issue that concerns my constituents is the lack of one bedroom homes.
I follow the drift of the members argument.
Over the past decade, the culture, legislation and policy around child protection have changed considerably.
That is a funny thing and it is a problem.
There are different ways round the issue.
I think that that deals with the issues.
You also touched on broadband, which is a fairly high profile issue.
I have lodged two further amendments that will further enhance the development of Gaelic education.
I am happy to support a British team in the Olympic and Paralympic games.
That does not make for strong logic.
I have asked that question previously, and I have not yet heard anything.
That has not been done, although it could have been.
It should not be just a populist gimmick.
Parallels should be drawn and new approaches should be considered.
I do have such a concern.
I just have one point to make.
I will take those questions in reverse order.
We have new regulation in place to encourage and ensure best practice.
Today you have given us another idea, which we appreciate.
Professionals and carers who take on that role for children in care face many challenges.
In particular, there is increasing Executive intervention in giving advice about education.
That is part of the problem.
We build flexibility into our work planning and manage it in that way.
An example of an application from the Angus area is Kilry village hall.
Will you explain what you mean by that and why you take that view.
I will pick up on that issue.
There would not be much cost in sending that tax bill, would there.
One would have to get to grips with that and look at it closely.
We are responding to such questions.
These are the sort of elements to consider.
However, I think that the buoyancy of the council tax is clear.
Property tax remains the most common local tax in the world.
It has to be raised.
If we live longer, attitudes will change.
Often, NEETs have been persistent truants or have had low attainment levels.
Sustainable development of this food sector should be the main focus for policy makers.
There is overwhelming unanimity in the chamber about the bill.
I particularly welcome his comments on his predecessor, Margaret Jamieson.
Secretary of state, you made several references to the Calman commission and its work.
Let me share it with you.
It would have been rather presumptuous to have reappointed it before a parliamentary election.
Consistent with that, the Bank will engage with the Fiscal Commission that you have established.
Those organisations back the bill because it is beneficial to workers, pensioners and the poor.
Were those partly recommendations or were you talking theoretically, as it were.
The word appropriate is used.
It is time that the Labour members of the Executive talked a lot tougher.
Perhaps you could refresh my memory.
That is what is happening in the aquaculture industry, as in every other.
We must look seriously at drafting.
The Parliament has a responsibility to listen to that message.
I have three or four pots too, because I have worked in industry.
Together, those initiatives will provide a high quality public transport link to the airport.
No, but, again, it is not set in tablets of stone.
That should be resolved as a consequence of the passage of the bill.
It would be better to deal with the issue.
It is not sufficient for that to be done only by the midwife.
The degree to which collective bargaining has disappeared in the United Kingdom is striking.
The real issue is that there are no parameters with regard to the capital costs.
Let me take the aggregates levy first.
Income tax is a focus of this debate.
That would mean having two different systems with two sets of administrative costs.
I accept that that was your position.
I have been talking to many pensioners in recent times.
Information sharing is absolutely fundamental to the development of effective shared care.
That is why I gave the example of Shetland and Strathclyde being closer to Z.
We intend to build on the powers and responsibilities of local authorities.
There is no reason why people should not be able to defer taxes.
I am afraid that the members information is incorrect.
The SNP Government engages with those who are willing to engage in discussions.
I will do my best to answer the question without being too bland.
In that, we will also talk about what we will do less of.
I welcome the announcement earlier this week of additional cash for research.
Therefore, decisions that employees make every day can be instrumental in organisational cyber security.
However, we are also prepared to raise concerns when Government action threatens sport in Scotland.
Regardless of whether people supported it or not, everyone found it emotionally exhausting.
We measure our progress using international comparators.
We are already halfway through our time, so we will need to move on.
The Scottish Government has made its position clear.
Early years, primary and special schools are excellent at doing such work.
I have two final questions.
A lot of that is DWP spend, loan charges and employee costs.
Separating out those reasons is impossible.
However, the model in the paper takes an isolated figure, based on one factor.
Generally speaking, our members have taken a pragmatic view on this issue.
Is that not a possibility for the Scottish Parliament.
That should help practitioners to support children.
That means that Christians must pray for you.
The pros and cons of distribution were decided on a technical basis.
Could I make one more point.
It is not household based.
Will he please bring that forward by a year.
That happens already, although the scale would change.
However, cleanliness is everyones responsibility.
Obviously, there are multiple obstacles to employment for many people.
Some strategies cross council boundaries.
That is what the industry says.
I deal with a fair number of inward investors among my clients.
There is a significant need.
Our communications strategy was an important element.
It was a fantastic performance and the actors gave their all.
Rita Hale used to work there.
The scheme has much potential to develop people and grow businesses in Scotland.
The specific Tesco proposal is, however, a matter for others.
It is easy to assume that, if you change the structure, something will work better.
I think that we have aired most of the issues that we wanted to discuss.
It is what you do with it that matters.
Will Mr Welsh give way.
Any decision to use that contingency resource in Scotland would be for the chief constable.
In my speech, I shall endeavour to answer the questions that were raised.
There is a risk of a chase to the bottom.
So we could just add those words.
However, that is in the realm of speculation.
The issue touches on national sensitivities.
I am more than happy to.
 We signalled that we had issues at that stage.
That is, of course, a matter for members, individually and collectively.
Thank you for introducing me and my colleagues.
Councils must decide whether to use the reserves at their disposal to protect services.
I would have no problem with that, Mr McLetchie.
How did you, as head of the commission, feel about that amount.
There are no simple criteria to identify what one should be spending money on.
I will answer your question, convener.
It will be another step away.
Susan Deacon is right to highlight the importance of workforce and staffing issues.
We intend to replicate this successful approach on ScotRail.
However, there is no doubt that that evidence was considered.
Parliament could decide to do that.
I apologise to my colleagues for entering the debate late.
Worse than that, the process undermined the effective micro joint working that existed.
How does it affect the deduction and the recalculation that is carried out thereafter.
We could see what we could do with them.
The issue of flexibility was raised following a question to Dougald Middleton.
That leaves on the table the question of provincial corporate tax.
We must get beyond content and assess what are the underlying skills.
In the meantime, we need to address deficiencies and weaknesses in the current system.
To ask the Scottish Executive when it will bring forward proposals on sentencing.
First and foremost, the police are accountable to the Scottish Police Authority.
That would be very good.
We will have a short suspension to allow a changeover of witnesses.
The background is set out in my letter to the committee.
However, it is not all gloom and doom.
We are grateful that he has come back.
What is ultimately of impact, however, is the tax base.
I am pleased to support the bill.
If we have to contact you again, we will do so.
I think that the Parliaments message is that it does expect that.
It has been a long process.
That is what people in Scotland seek from this Parliament and the Scottish Government.
They and their families constitute a significant proportion of the population of Scotland.
On production efficiency, we need more investment in sites and more effective regulation and stewardship.
He is absolutely right that we need to fight back and invest in those people.
If you did, I did not notice it.
Those who have been trained are making a radical difference.
That is where the gap has occurred.
I hope that the minister will take that into consideration.
It is reassuring that some members of the Labour Party do call on occasion.
That, however, is a matter for you folks.
Canada, the US and Spain provide examples of successful decentralised tax systems.
This country of ours requires a coherent prison policy.
The current social work model works well.
I am sorry that Johann Lamont does not appreciate my trying to answer her questions.
Of course, that is an agonising choice to have to make.
Opening Gaelic out to people does a lot to encourage them and increase their confidence.
You mentioned that the spread of taxes is more volatile.
I think that the contribution that whisky makes to the Scottish economy is quite disappointing.
Should accessibility strategies always include deaf children who do not attend schools for the deaf.
There is a job of work to do.
I think that the Holtham commission referred to that.
We must acknowledge that families break down.
I am not sure that that is a correct interpretation of events.
His sheer enjoyment from those relatively simple performances cannot be measured.
However, the London Olympics cannot be supported at all costs.
It is the new, moderate, more liberal Murdo Fraser.
Schools, further education institutions and universities all contribute to that objective.
 We just do not.
That is five years away, but five years is a short time in politics.
Equally, nothing is forever, and economies change.
Perhaps Rhona Brankin will clarify that in her closing remarks.
You might well want to target a particular industry.
As you will see from that, we intend to provide helpline support.
Some other consequences of cutting corporation tax should be borne in mind.
That is the world that we live in.
No, the member cannot take that from what I have said.
Again, I am pleased to stand here and speak in the Gaelic language.
We all have to deal with these little technical difficulties.
That kind of thing grabs the parent, who says, Yes, I can teach my children.
I did not waste my time.
Support for independence or sovereignty partnership is down, particularly among younger people.
We are moving on now to corporation tax.
That is not the debate that political scientists in mainland Europe hold.
We have an absolute commitment to a local income tax.
I mentioned specifically doctors and consultants in the national health service.
Wales and Northern Ireland have Assemblies.
Pony trekking must be an important feature of the tourism industry.
They are two different things.
The generators are being switched over because of a fault with the power system.
Older people tell us that they find means testing demeaning.
I commend Jim Hume for leading the debate.
That would improve the bill.
Budgeting was not a science, but an art.
In too many cases, those families are chaotic and dysfunctional.
So it is with land value taxations penny.
Mussel production dominates shellfish culture in Scotland, but trout is also important in fresh waters.
The committee concludes that the bill would undermine local democracy.
That is a problem that Sweden currently faces.
I will give you an example of what I mean about political will.
We in Argyll and Bute are enthusiastic about the project, for a variety of reasons.
The current system is based on clear identification of properties.
Aha I thought that Mike was going to say that it was.
That would be a recipe for chaos.
It was the hungry caterpillar speech, and I will never forget that day.
Do you agree with that claim.
We have also received the views of the two cross party groups.
One of them was a young, skilled, English speaking workforce.
Is that the reality of the situation.
That is one example of the scheme in action.
I welcome the ministers comments.
I hope that we can build on the research and address that serious issue.
The sentence in brackets should be removed.
The Parliaments powers are extremely limited.
However, that is not allowed under the current Scotland Bill.
The key question must be how we support the sufferers.
We cannot deliver prosperity unless we plan for prosperity.
Our approach to public policy and resources will certainly need to change.
I go along with Rhoda Grants comments.
However, the culture in social care is different.
The choice would be a policy decision.
That would be at the very high end.
That resource from non domestic rates flows straight to local government.
We were persuaded by the evidence to make the recommendation.
The question for them is what Scotland will look like through that lens.
We want to develop a comprehensive child dental service.
However, she had only the examination and the extraction.
We have not calculated the impacts.
I am willing to address that question now or later, as members wish.
Those are the numbers, if you like.
We have still to consider that matter.
The information is en route to the committee this very minute.
I do not think that that is the right way of conducting public policy.
How would that work There are difficulties with the proposal.
I have a quick question for Jess Barrow.
I will answer that in a couple of ways.
I think that professional opinion would substantiate that as well.
It also proposes to write off outstanding council tax debt that is owed to councils.
They want to know where the improvement in service is.
The Governments consultation has closed and the responses have not been published.
I am grateful for the opportunity to discuss the draft budget with the committee.
Wetterberg also proposed a currency union.
] Perhaps someone else is going to tell us about it.
Phil Gallie started to mention people getting on their bikes.
In fairness, the IT position in HMRC has reached a good, stable place.
It is not possible to do that with a fixed budget.
You have to make a judgment.
Outbound travel is not always bad news for the country.
Of course there are, and the Executive has been putting many of them into practice.
I am certainly happy to do that.
There are some people who would be influenced by that disincentive.
There are three questions to be put today.
There should be a generosity of spirit towards the language.
It is important that we do not think only about airport access.
That area would not be allowed to cut at all.
Business investment decisions have all sorts of complicated elements.
The report itself marks an important Scottish contribution to the debate.
Experts challenge us with warnings to Government.
As I said just before, it is both.
We also acknowledge that pupil records issues need to be addressed.
Mr McColl, did you want to comment.
The authorities must be accountable for what went wrong.
In Glasgow, there is a proposal for a second such primary school.
I do not see why I need to reinforce it.
If we fall behind now, it will be much more difficult to achieve future targets.
We have set stretching targets and are learning lessons as we strive to achieve them.
My second point relates to the same graph.
Clearly, in a democracy, there will be different opinions.
We have decided to take the next three agenda items in private.
Your paper also talks about empowering local authorities.
You said that granite gets taxed heavily but slate does not.
Have you considered how prudential rules will affect PPP/NPDO schemes.
I take it to our tax advisers, then.
I endorse everything that the minister said.
I will be very happy to pass your clear message back to Mr Huhne.
That is a matter of regret.
I think that the position has to be clear.
Your point is, Mr Macintosh.
I must admit that that is difficult to rationalise.
We are mindful of those challenges.
Why have you highlighted that fairly historical example.
The bill is, therefore, hugely welcome if it can do anything to achieve that aim.
There will always be practical challenges with any issue.
Today, our council examined our six month monitoring, which projected an overspend.
I know that the UK Government disputes that.
We advocate the abolition of the UBR and council tax.
There might be one or two things that should be recorded.
I welcome the potential for using the fund in the broadest fashion.
Deprivation has to be taken into account when grant distribution is being considered.
The findings of the report do not surprise me.
In all those processes, an element of legal advice is involved.
It is a very important health issue.
We must think of inputs.
It is for those parties to resolve their differences.
In alphabetical order, the nominations are  Kenny MacAskill and Margo MacDonald.
As I am sure he appreciates, that is a complex piece of work.
It is rigid and bureaucratic and it weakens co ordination of services.
The economic climate does not matter.
I now open up the session for questions.
On that first issue, the police have been increasing the numbers of trained armed officers.
Prevention is at the centre of everything that we do.
Such a person would be able to draw together the various strands of scientific information.
Will you give us a wee explanation of that, please.
We expect councils to achieve further savings in the future.
I am sure that you would recognise that.
The Government has a Financial Services Advisory Board.
I would be happy to expand on those comments.
However, that is not important.
On the other hand, large amounts of income simply do not get taxed.
It would be interesting to get a concrete sense of how the approach will differ.
That is a fudged answer to the first part of your question.
I thank the minister and his officials.
The debate has been interesting and constructive.
It was not identified as a local tax.
I am drawing on information that has been provided.
I appreciate that Iain Gray is new to the committee.
It is right to build the provision into the bill.
If the report is laid before Parliament, that gives the committee an opportunity.
We have exhausted our questions.
Every three years, every sites market value is reassessed.
It seems to me that there would be benefits all round.
However, I thank you and your colleagues for the opportunity to be here this afternoon.
I agree with most of what has been said.
Can the First Minister tell me when it last met.
Its report is due at the end of this month.
I am very interested in the members suggestion.
Gaelic is in a fragile condition.
However, local accountability is an important concern.
There are superb examples of integration that has delivered significant improvements for service users.
I am not entirely sure that I understand the question.
That is an explicit part of the design of the devo more project.
There is an issue about national insurance contributions.
It is nice to have the opportunity to think back to what education is for.
The thought that has gone into organising the projects three phases is impressive.
The further opportunities to deliver services are not all about cuts.
The New Testament says that our governors need our prayers.
It would be of value if certain thoughts could be kept in mind.
We should be in the same position.
I cannot let her do that.
Can the same argument be used for councils.
I am against what the Holtham commission called the own base deduction.
I ask my legal colleagues to elaborate.
However, that will be turned round by the act.
It is an ideal part of the world to study that subject.
The tax has a progressive quality.
I am happy to go straight to questions.
I welcome the ministers movement on that.
We will keep the committee updated on progress.
It is therefore important that we get the bill right.
The Conservatives increased it substantially and the Labour Government has increased it even more.
I want to ask about targeting benefits.
At Glasgow airport, the majority of traffic is outbound.
That is the advantage of coming later.
I have a straightforward question.
It is important that we regard the bill as part of that bigger tapestry.
Naturally, a company would want to go to the south east of England.
There are advantages in the council tax system and equalisation still happens.
Can you update us on progress.
The fact that such a register does not exist may contravene the convention.
That is what we should look at.
Our tech savvy children and young people should be encouraged to think about cyber resilience.
That is not how economists normally look at progressivity.
We believe that such an imbalance blurs local accountability.
Alternatively, we could remove the sentence entirely, as it does not add to anything.
I will address those two issues separately.
The First Minister needs to bring forward his proposals.
I think that is a fair deal.
Our amendment refers to duties on local authorities.
It has two distinct phases.
The Government must be careful how it spends the money that is available for heritage.
You gave the example of the Buchanan Street shopping centre.
Optimism is not something that I usually associate with the Scottish Conservatives.
Indeed, exploration has taken place.
It seems to be something that, again, cannot be handled by very general legislation.
I turn to pupils records.
I understood that the non domestic rate was all part of the Scottish block.
The thresholds between different rates of taxation will always have potential disincentive effects.
The debate has provided us with a lot of information about how to do that.
One group who are underrepresented in all elections are disabled people.
We welcome the committees inquiry and report for raising debate on those matters.
That does not seem to be a great deal for us, to be frank.
I take back what I said earlier.
Yes, so the bus, or the boat, was missed in that regard at that time.
That would be similar to screening for a condition that was untreatable.
During that inquiry, the issue of the benefits system was constantly raised.
I echo what Jamie Hepburn said.
The pilot projects do not require legislation.
Once that committee had made a report, I would have an opinion.
As I said to Moira Kelly, SMEs are close to my heart.
The net effect would be reduction of land prices.
We are trying to be successful rather than to be fair between businesses.
The SNP is not going to get anywhere if it carries on like that.
We have also supported Gaelic teacher recruitment for reviewing Gaelic early years education.
I believe that the mechanism that we have will help to achieve that.
I think that the revenue element was probably more significant.
We need strong, effective regulation.
That creates dependency and inflexibility.
I congratulate Robert Brown on securing todays debate on his motion.
I am sorry, but I do not understand that argument.
It is very much work in progress, which we will follow with interest.
In some instances, their rates were a third of those in Scotland.
The way in which things are currently done is a nightmare.
I understand that that is how the plans are intended to operate.
Perhaps I could add something on PPP, which we mentioned in our submission.
Recent debate at Westminster has underlined the bills importance.
I am not quite sure that I follow the logic.
Network Rail took some persuading that cyclists should not be banned from Waverley station.
You touched on a point about local income tax in response to Sylvia Jacksons question.
They can slip through the net.
Let us consider the effect that that would have on Glasgow.
Can you explain how that happened.
Sandra White mentioned that we recently visited Estonia.
We cannot repeat that experience unless we want to go bankrupt.
It is actually quite funny.
Yes, although tarmac is not ideal for trotting on.
If anything, the current version suggests that the situation is worse rather than better.
I am also a former leader of that council.
That obviously limits what I have to say.
If the base is reduced, Scotland will experience no detriment.
The action plan focuses on that area.
I can see great advantages in that.
The bill is not only about installing lifts and ramps.
However, under the current situation, I am afraid that we must make the comparison.
That is where the child protection committees come to the fore.
We will take it from there.
Clearly, those different approaches and cultures need to be thought through.
As I am already halfway through my time, I will be brief.
That is why community capacity is so important throughout the process.
That would be a substantial improvement on the present position.
We must also have the political will and commitment to make that change happen.
The committee has indicated that there will be an open and transparent recruitment process.
We have already heard references to the French brandy industry.
I am grateful for that.
As other members mentioned, community planning is extremely important.
The bill will make ordinary working families better off.
I say that simply because we have to take care with statistics.
We are collecting a lot of information.
I did not bring a list with me.
It is clear that that is a net increase.
The industry brings important economic benefits to all our coastal communities.
Doing business in Europe has become far more transparent.
However, the minister has ducked the real issues that would help local government.
As the convener said, he was a member of the commission.
We must have the ability to draft bills properly.
That would mean considering a change in the welfare system.
The Finance Committee is creating a new post of standing adviser on the budget.
It is enough to drive a leader to drink.
Grant distribution was a thorny issue for everybody during the reports formulation.
I will introduce each theme and then open it up for discussion.
Employers also have an important role to play.
That is material in any given year.
We know from your submission that you do not like taxing property transactions.
That said, I am enormously grateful to both professors for their time today.
I am trying to get everyone in.
We will never get it perfect.
The OECD one is the most recent one to have come out, to my knowledge.
It is important that the minister takes the opportunity to clarify what the commissioner said.
We anticipate that the higher rate threshold will continue to rise, as it has done.
I cannot recall that happening.
Sylvia Jackson, Bristow Muldoon and others have tried to misrepresent what I said.
Since then, however, nothing has changed.
I thank our witnesses for their evidence.
Our clerk does so well in so many areas of our work.
The motion debated reflects some of the key concerns of the new Scottish Government.
I take assurance from that.
I entirely agree that it is a welcome development that Serco is now recruiting locally.
That report should be supported by further work by our two reporters.
The firefighter and the nurse will pay less.
You have kind of covered it.
Do you have a view that you can offer.
There is no question about that.
I do not know whether that is happening.
Our previous name was Live Beat Dads Scotland.
I invite opening statements from you before we move to questions.
Devo more is not simply about need.
I thank him for doing so.
Mr Adam is in his last minute.
Have any of the proposals been thought through Clearly, they have not.
Or Mr Swinney will tell us.
Other important issues have been raised.
It is an important bill that seeks to improve the lives of our children.
Dr Murray asked how that had been achieved.
I am pointing out what we believe should be the way forward.
That is a simple tax system.
This Government will always put Scotlands interests first.
Yes, but that would not require the devolution of excise taxes.
We want to continue consideration of the issues.
Are you able to express one view.
You must have some idea of what you think the likely range will be.
Kate Maclean made positive contributions.
Surely the worth of an apprentice should not be determined by geography.
No, I am saying the opposite.
We think that, in relation to commencement orders, that bit has to be resolved.
However, that remains to be seen.
That brings us to the end of questions.
Sir Peter, what do you understand by subsidiarity and what are your views on it.
I know that Liam McArthur will focus on that in more detail later.
The Cabinet will discuss issues of importance to Scotland.
There is a lot that we can do to augment Scotch.
Among others, Lindsay Paterson was present at that discussion.
Although flawed in its execution, that is an example of land value taxation.
I do not know whether you have looked ahead at that issue.
I was impressed at how many of the recommendations were in the bill.
I have three more quick questions.
We have demonstrated that that can be done.
We think that that is wholly appropriate.
Do admin costs tend to eat into these things.
There are many aspects to consider, but one is the use of nitrogenous fertilisers.
As Fiona McLeod said, the water environment bill is extremely important.
I read the material before I wrote the paper.
The word dialogue has been used a number of times.
I do not know the numbers for Scotland, but those for Wales are illustrative.
Last May, an astonishing thing happened  we won an outright majority in a proportional system.
There is no banding, so, yes, it would be the whole tax base.
That is a big issue.
The Health Committee did an excellent job in commissioning much new information and data.
I am not aware of that.
A huge proportion of local governments spending also comes down a pipe.
I was trying to talk about what I regard as politically viable changes.
I welcome it and all those of future years.
The Conservatives are, and have been, negative about dental training in Scotland.
Logical debate tells us that we should support the motion.
Tax law can be outdated, and it needs flexibility, because we have a changing world.
There is nothing magic about it.
We would potentially have leverage in both areas.
Is not it the case that the revenue comes from all UK taxes.
China clay sand in Cornwall and parts of Devon is not taxed either.
That was then, but now he blames the UK.
Mary Scanlon should praise the fact that the system is being pioneered in the Highlands.
They might even have saved a childs life.
My mother lives in a part of the country in which many Americans own houses.
As the committee agreed earlier, we will take the remaining agenda items in private.
Unfortunately, he did not tell me what his supplementary was going to be.
You talked about it being difficult to establish a demand profile.
I appreciate members on going co operation.
I cannot, without having seen the submission.
It is the same with income tax.
First, we should welcome the committees attempts to open up the subject to debate.
We all face that problem.
Clearly, what is needed in council tax is a regular cycle of revaluation.
The distribution system is a question of self interest for the councils.
It is imperative that we act now.
I am grateful for that reassurance.
Once again, there was human error.
We have developed a siting and database management tool.
Any intervention should be brief because time is tight.
Other points might be worthy of more consideration.
Indeed, I have spoken against the application at a public meeting.
It has been pointed out that the member is a Liberal Democrat.
It is difficult to speculate on what HMRC would have charged.
I think that that is why we rejected the idea.
Yet again, SNP manifesto commitments have crumbled in the face of scrutiny.
Whether it is possible to achieve that, I do not know.
The job of MSPs is to work with the Executive.
There would be no point in my being here if you agreed with everything.
Pony trekking in the UK started in Aberfoyle.
Philadelphia is a live example of that.
That is a cornucopia of methods to pay for the infrastructure investment plan.
This Parliament voted for a public inquiry in September.
The minister has a job to do to persuade all those dentists to come back.
The land tax is a progressive income tax.
The last panel of witnesses pointed that out as well.
In my submission, I discuss briefly a number of possibilities.
Therefore, it should certainly be insisted that those functions are carried out outside the Treasury.
The Conservatives, for example, have proposed a discount for pensioners.
I thank Robert Brown for the opportunity to debate this subject once again.
New spend and assistance for it are based on the percentage of consent received.
If we want to save Gaelic, we must expand Gaelic medium education.
I am pleased to report that all have since been discharged.
I have a couple of questions on which I am keen to have your views.
He said that he favoured the poll tax because it had been abolished.
First, the information has to be put in the public domain at the time.
I will give you the answer  zero.
That was related to the change of Government, as well.
To keep growing, we need to build skills and qualifications levels among our workforce.
Can you just come to the point, Mr Macintosh.
That gives a clue to our future policy needs.
That is simply not acceptable.
Around Inverness, not hundreds but thousands of new houses are being built.
That would be a big plus.
As you rightly point out, the situation is getting more challenging.
The issue for us is how much weight to give to that.
As I understand it, that is very much what you want to do.
] That is another possible implication of the SST.
We never seem to have those figures.
Now, it seems, policing tactics and civil liberties may be heading in a similar direction.
That means that we must agree all amendments this afternoon, if possible.
The extension of democracy demeans no state and diminishes no power.
Thank you for your helpful evidence.
Would the minimum unit pricing approach not allow us to address that.
Sadly, people become victims every day.
I am sure that COSLA  and others will not forget their absence.
Some US states are in bad shape, but they are trying to correct themselves.
I thank the university for making it available to us.
However, one cannot help but be disappointed by the omission of significant potential signatories.
That has made me think of a supplementary.
The decision for the Scottish Government and the Scottish Parliament is whether that is welcome.
We considered that issue and discussed it at length with the economic advisers.
Liverpool has the highest level of council tax in the UK.
The member must take such facts on board.
Have you quantified that How do you deal with the issue around deflationary bias.
The important thing is to consider who corporate parents are.
In researching my speech, I drew first on my own experience.
To that extent, I believe that we should amend it.
Under the bill, would less of that fiscal flight take place.
Our future is about investing in such people and their skills, passion and determination.
If central Government determines what happens, the Executive should be accountable for that.
It is a majority position.
Professor Trench, you mention Funding devo more in your submission.
We need to look at that issue in the future.
Would there be reduced grant.
What effect would that approach have on any industry.
The concern is not so much the carbon footprint but the effect on biodiversity.
For example, the oil industry in Aberdeen might suddenly not be doing so well.
I am fairly optimistic about that debate.
With more demand comes the need to cater for all sectors in the housing market.
I turn to the recent statements of the President of the European Commission.
I congratulate the Local Government Committee on its work.
He mentioned the new Olympic sport of forelock tugging.
I am a little confused.
Those issues have been touched on.
I therefore ask Alex Neil to think logically about this.
As I said, it would have strong economic benefits for us.
The answer to that has two parts.
We are here primarily to scrutinise the bill.
However, it is good to see the SNP officially adopting Liberal Democrat policy.
There are administration costs and costs in human lives.
It is clear that you have considered the issue.
Visit Scotland should be interested in the evidence.
I am trying to understand the matter clearly.
We should get behind the infrastructure plan.
Such large scale transfers are politically driven.
I think that the situation should change and that there should be more local accountability.
That clearly must be examined in further detail.
The CAP will be reformed, but it will always be reformed at a gentle pace.
There is legal opinion to back that up.
The Burt committee cast aspersions on the fairness of the tax.
I will follow on from the discussion with Mr Ingram.
I thank them all for the time that they are giving the committee.
We look forward to working with him in the weeks and months ahead.
I draw members attention to my membership of the Soil Association.
Do you not agree It is clear in standing orders.
Local government is about accountability and the provision of local services.
There is always a question about changing the franchise.
I applaud him for that.
Secondly, the present arrangements for subsidising social housing are unsustainable.
If the law changes, we will comply with it.
Scotland has had to compete with decline to make growth.
I did not mean to interrupt the member midstream.
An added attraction is that we have new television coverage.
We must call the meeting to order.
When the member starts drinking Scottish oak, he should me let me know.
I welcome the Scottish Executives support for the majority of the recommendations in the report.
Is the member going to answer the question.
It was an important part of the process.
Working in partnership and co operation is a huge issue for the industry.
I will do my best to answer questions, but I cannot necessarily answer them all.
Moreover, you said that the manner in which you look at the issues is important.
We were encouraged to support non democratic organisations simply to satisfy Treasury rules.
That system does not help in spreading the cost of extra local spending, however.
People should remember that both are forms of wealth.
Bareboat charter arrangements are used by a range of industries, not just our own.
I commend the ADSW for the good work that it does.
Other nations have other ideas.
We should take that back to ministers.
If the power were used, it would stick out like a sore thumb.
One in four of our children across Scotland still lives in poverty.
As I understand it, that is Barnettable.
A clearer admission of failure would be hard to find.
The rest of Europe has a value system, based on specific value.
However, that is what I think is the finding.
Through its international festival, it attracts visitors from all over the world.
We have to look at the economic circumstances in which we find ourselves.
Is there any guarantee that that will be used as it is supposed to be.
The council is involved in a PPP scheme to replace a road in Angus.
I remind all present to turn off their mobile phones and BlackBerrys.
There is also the bad sense, which refers to jumping through certain measured hoops.
No doubt Mr Wheelhouse encountered some of them in his ministerial role in Doha.
Robert Brown mentioned regeneration, which was mentioned in the debate on local government earlier.
Good practice means running a fish farm in a way that stops escapes.
Healthcare Improvement Scotland publishes reports as and when appropriate.
I accept the point that Phil Gallie makes.
The point here is that you have to raise the money.
Where is the national debate in Quebec now It has obviously had the two referendums.
There could be a million.
To ask the First Minister when he will next meet the Prime Minister.
What I have said so far is exactly about picking winners.
Changing taxation could conceivably make a contribution to economic growth.
We are not taking into account all the effects.
Audit Scotland criticised the CHPs for their duplication ofexisting health and social care partnership arrangements.
The question is what those people will do.
But your paper states that local income tax would still be buoyant.
I open up the questioning to committee members.
That is the central thrust of my message.
Convener, you cut me off earlier, rather abruptly, when I was providing that information.
The figures come out of the air, I think.
That is before water rates, sewerage charges, VAT, excise duty and so on are paid.
We do not intend to bring forward any such proposition.
I will be as brief as I can, convener.
It was an on going process of acquiring skills.
I think that they would have to be used.
Work is also being done with the United Kingdom Government.
It would be inaccurate to say that we would not have concerns about that.
We hope to publish both documents in the very near future.
That allegation is absolutely untrue.
At the moment, we are at a disadvantage.
Following that debate, I wrote to the appropriate minister to highlight the concern.
You two seem to have a lot of debates to continue.
There have been many developments recently on the economic development front.
You are obviously not going to answer the question.
I thank colleagues for their questions, and I thank everyone for attending.
There is a compelling set of arguments in their favour.
However, this is not just about tourism.
I believe that Colin Miller would like to make a brief opening statement.
Peter Peacock and I visited such a school in Edinburgh recently.
However, for young people it is about ensuring fairness and equality in terms of rights.
I am happy to move my amendment on behalf of the Liberal Democrats.
We are also helping by bringing forward further legislation.
Thank you for your time, minister.
All I am saying is that, as far as nurses are concerned, pay matters.
We have to monitor outcomes somehow.
Perhaps the Government should be addressing those problems.
Of course, everything is relative, as Mike Rumbles suggested.
I have been intrigued by the changeover from locally to nationally gathered land tax.
In fairness, I think that all the parties in the Parliament share that objective.
That is how I would characterise the significant contribution that has been made.
That is a staggering statistic.
I answered Mr McConnells point specifically.
The partnership, along with leadership, will produce the desired outcomes.
An obvious example is any property related tax.
We have to consider suggestions for an adviser.
It just adds to the challenge in future years.
We believe that moral authority is not a human attribute, skill or ability.
I hope that the Parliament will follow their advice.
That has not been highlighted enough.
The same thing applies in Canada.
Are any members otherwise minded Are we all content to have that organised.
As you have said, there are clearly some issues in Highlands and Islands in particular.
The minister came to the committee and did not give any position.
We look forward to playing a constructive role in that process.
The report recommended that Parliament should reject the bill.
We currently have a goal setting regime.
The Government continues to promote the proposal for a local income tax.
I welcome, after that short delay, Peter Kelly of the Poverty Alliance.
After all, you would not do artificial things that would increase your tax.
Decisions to deploy firearms in individual situations are, correctly, a matter for chief constables.
The point is that your paper does not even mention it.
There are advantages and disadvantages to speaking this late in the debate.
The trouble is that that is not necessarily sensible either.
I want to pick up on capital borrowing.
Would you like any alternatives to PPP to be introduced.
I have already referred to transformation.
Given that, I ask the minister to give us an update on those two commitments.
Accordingly, from now on, I would like us to have questions.
It has rightly and helpfully drawn on the personal experiences of a number of members.
We must all be clear about the end for which we are aiming.
I am sure that there is no attempt by the Government to avoid scrutiny.
You have to consider that.
I will address several issues briefly.
Obviously, both of them cannot be right.
We have also discussed the issue with the Office for National Statistics.
We will act swiftly on those findings.
The French system is especially complicated.
Today, we have heard from them just another version of the north British cringe.
We think that putting more effort into that will pay for itself over time.
I understand that it came from evidence from some of the royal colleges.
Discussion on evidence based policy has unfortunately led to more and more of that.
Industrial strength cider is also a major concern.
I would not claim that we consider the development of taxation policy across the UK.
He stated The highest cost risks are currently utilities diversion work.
I still do not hear an answer to that question.
Earlier this year, I launched the detect cancer early initiative.
There was nothing inevitable about those agreements.
I want finally to put your recommendations in context.
I wanted to understand where you are coming from.
I share Bill Aitkens concern.
That would be better than having a formula that limited each authoritys ability to borrow.
Do you mean putting a taxation on whisky before it is exported.
There would be a problem only with Switzerland, Jersey or the Isle of Man.
I commend the report to the Parliament.
What other taxes would be under its control.
We recognise the links between employment, poverty and health.
I will phrase it in a different way.
The minister must make it a priority to address that.
I invite Zoe Woods to take a seat at the table.
The debate is about a two part proposal.
I will move on from the subject of reactions to the report.
I have Willie Rennie, followed by David McLetchie.
You are all people who have spent your working lives in education.
However, the key is having those powers and doing something with them.
We are keen to see subsidiarity working properly, including within the UK.
However, that is not a counterargument.
Bristow Muldoon devoted many of his remarks to the virtues of efficiency.
We are starting to see plateauing.
What assumptions have you made about the rate of appeals.
We must look at the accountability of local authorities and elected members.
I will add something that is to do with not Scots law but commercial practicalities.
It is astonishing what Norway has done.
I stopped after the fourth because I got bored with the calculations.
We still face a major challenge.
It is not intended to confer either a surplus or a deficit on the Parliament.
At this point in time, we must deal with the problems that we have inherited.
The land tax would be a uniform rate.
I am not sure that that is exactly what I said.
Those objectives are all part of our wider transport priorities.
It is certainly not the norm.
More people of working age are becoming better qualified and fewer people are completely unqualified.
We would be happy to discuss that, too.
People must be able to find out what is really happening in their area.
The last thing that we want at this time is cuts in children's services.
I would like to see such a service available to looked after children throughout Scotland.
I am the executive director of Land Reform Scotland.
We have agreed that those are the priority areas.
Will you let the secretary of state finish, please.
That should provide the additional flexibilities that the report suggests.
You also mentioned robust indicators.
If one wanted to redistribute income, one would come up with a totally different structure.
That period concluded earlier this week, and we look forward to hearing detailed proposals.
I have a lot of sympathy with that.
Independent Ireland will assume the presidency in January.
I will ensure that we get these various bits of information to the committee.
Those are long out of date.
My amendment to the SNP motion is in a number of parts.
In rural areas, they are the backbone of community life.
We cannot find such a situation acceptable.
In north east Scotland, access to dental services is an issue of key concern.
The second aspect of the challenge is the transition to adulthood.
Kenny Gibson has once again fallen at the final hurdle.
There are reservations, but the allocation of moneys between councils is an extremely difficult issue.
Our proposition is that there would be no change to excise duty rates.
We remain keen to sustain those discussions.
That is a pleasant experience, if one can get into business class.
The student staff ratio in higher education has doubled.
The poll tax was a classic example of that.
It is very difficult to be exact.
I will kick off the questioning.
I am not fussed about my companies.
I assume that you have contributed to that review.
The Scottish Government is able to move revenue into capital if it wishes to.
That is why we must take time to examine the question of reform.
Do you agree that whatever replaces air passenger duty should be devolved.
I would, of course, be prepared to contribute to that.
It was the response that we got as we discussed it in the commission.
That was brief and to the point.
Parents also say that class numbers need to be lower.
In other words, you retain your advantages.
However, I believe that she underestimates the demand that will exist.
Everybody refuses to have that debate.
Local government also has an interest and a role to play.
Maybe one day he will come back with an answer on that.
They have a much higher incidence of mental ill health.
Getting the right route will be critical.
We discussed that issue at considerable length.
Today, questions to the First Minister will be taken by the Deputy First Minister.
That is a key problem.
The extra resources will allow us to double the award.
Todays session has been long.
There are areas that we are seeking to re reserve.
I will return to the Scottish budget.
I am delighted that there have been developments in Tayside.
Again, that would be limited by the issues that we have been discussing.
I had an opportunity to make our view known.
That is what the electorate perceive as important.
We have given a commitment to ensuring that sentencing is more consistent.
The article is bad reporting and is bad for the Scottish people.
That amendment was substantial in size, complexity and possible implications for Scots law.
We have kept companies here.
Perhaps the reporters could have a continuing liaison role with the co ordinator.
The proposed SST is explicitly redistributive, which is its key attraction for the SSP.
Tax law is indeed complex and it is perhaps outdated.
I will give members a practical example.
Abroad, Australia is investigating minimum unit pricing and Canada already does it.
As part of the reform, we suggest that proper consultation arrangements are put in place.
I welcome Murray Tosh to the meeting.
Some kind of devolution settlement short of independence would provide the necessary policy instruments.
He then pursued me and a clerk out of the hotel, with his mouth gaping.
Why on earth would any commission want to do that.
Employers were not to give staff paid leave of absence to attend that meeting.
Scotland is not the biggest place in the UK but, nonetheless, it is not inconsiderable.
That also applies to sheepdogs, which are of particular interest to many of us.
An Executive note and a committee covering note accompany the regulations.
I could not agree more.
I am not arguing for any specific service.
Such a Government would have the powers to do something.
The issue of mobility is an interesting one.
We all now recognise that we need to equip people for the changed environment.
When will those figures be available.
I will not give way yet.
If his party makes a proposal of such magnitude, that is not good enough.
I will be very quick, convener.
At the moment, that is still only potentially the case.
On community planning, your comment about joint priorities is obviously appropriate.
We then get the reward from that, which Mr Black talked about.
We do not want a huge new initiative of Government programmes to deal with that.
We have debated whether we put money back into the community.
I am sorry, Mr Purvis, but I cannot take your intervention.
There are clearly different opinions within the business community.
We must learn to say that, when youngsters achieve differently, they are still achieving.
We can get there, but that is not an easy task.
Canada has a lot of incentives.
The answer to your question has two parts.
They could be the bored adolescent, testing their new skills against security systems.
My final point looks backwards and relates to your interesting point about temporary Barnett consequentials.
There have been other such performances.
It is a matter of looking at what is currently available.
Scotland has four members on the Committee of the Regions whereas Denmark has nine.
As soon as we start doing that, complexity comes in.
That is an interesting way of doing things.
As the saying goes, they draw drawings only to suit their needs.
That is the devil in the question.
That is what I am interested in.
I will move on to my second question.
However, there have been too many changes.
Too regularly, people ask me what they can do individually.
The UK Government could do a lot more.
I am just saying that you did not hear from them.
My question on the overall policy reflects my question to you on corporation tax.
You mentioned that the tax varying powers have not been used since they were introduced.
We look forward to a Gaelic television channel.
We see huge potential for that kind of work as community planning comes on stream.
The committee is considering the post referendum situation.
We will ask questions to clarify matters before we produce our report.
Keith Harding mentioned land value taxation.
If we can sharpen up our questions and responses, that will be helpful.
I know that that will come as a terrible surprise to her.
When we drew up our submission, we said that there were various options.
] An ex minister is interrupting me from a sedentary position.
Perhaps the minister would do well to do so, too.
The fiscal drag mechanism rolls on independently of anything that the Scottish Government might do.
Again, I commend the committee for doing so.
The term judiciary probably covers everyone on the bench.
Had the adviser not turned up, those five people would have been sequestrated.
Certainly the Executive would have to pay more.
The borrowing powers that I was talking about were the capital borrowing powers.
The Holyrood project is not a particularly auspicious example from the former Minister for Finance.
SQH will not provide us with a head teacher template.
In any case, it does not deal with the fundamental issue of public housing stock.
By managing the system, we could have avoided the potential crisis after the election.
We were talking about relocation or setting up businesses in the first place.
The support of the banks is vital to the industry.
We will continue with that work in the future.
A local income tax that could take into account such circumstances would be fairer.
I return to the point about Scottish Water.
Everybody thinks that they should have more.
We have published the fish farm sites map.
I am surprised that you did not know that.
You argue that rental values are relatively stable, unlike capital values, which are volatile.
There are countries that take their monetary policy from outside.
Mr Jenkins has indicated some of those.
It will extrapolate, although the approach is perhaps not hugely different.
The service in the UK and Scotland has probably been the best until now.
I do not think that there are any more questions.
I am very happy to talk about waiting lists.
I commend that approach to the chamber.
It has one of the highest levels of underclaiming of all benefits.
Let us hope that we are ready for all those challenges when they come.
Yes, there probably would be a trade off.
Some of the recent studies of educational properties throughout Scotland add weight to that argument.
I hope that members will support the bill.
As I have said, the results are pretty robust.
If people know what they are paying for, they are less reluctant to pay tax.
Those Scottish sportsmen and women got support through the lottery sports fund and Government programmes.
The minister spoke of the daunting challenges of providing NHS dental services.
Tax is simply one factor.
I thank the panel for coming.
Mary Scanlon made an excellent speech that was redolent with institutional memory.
We should be a bit more positive than Des McNulty is.
I congratulate the committee on its thorough and wide ranging review.
If the Treasury took that view, I presume that the tax would not happen.
I am aware of the role that the voluntary sector can play.
I will come to the income tax proposal in more detail later.
The common thread is deprivation.
I have a quick comment.
I ask members to allow the minister to complete the debate.
Clarification is needed from the Inland Revenue on the process that would be followed.
Local taxes should be for local services.
I have not taken an intervention from my colleague, therefore I will do so.
The issue is one of tax administration.
I thank our three witnesses for their evidence and members for their questions.
I want to ensure that the Executive does that, too.
Just to be clear on the definitions, we are not really talking about different figures.
It has been a privilege for us to have taken part in the bills progress.
In that sense, the term autonomy could denote problems.
Meanwhile, the list of crimes that could have been prevented grows longer.
I am sure that a few in the Labour Party still believe in progressive taxation.
Most people make their decisions about budgets at the margins.
We had no idea how long it was taking for people to access those services.
Unfortunately, I am sure that Aberdeen is not alone in that regard.
Why would I do that.
The initial estimate would therefore still be required.
We need to focus on what we are doing.
Two submissions were in favour of locally set local income tax bands.
If there was change, there would be an impact from that change.
This has been a reasonably good tempered debate.
You can push me on that, but that is your description.
I was doing that, Presiding Officer.
Does the same correlation exist in the OECD study.
Taxes tend to go up and down, often in tandem.
It protected those kids from harm, rather than anything else.
The reduction in crime in the developed world is a strange phenomenon.
Under the current system, that is what would happen.
That pushes the argument very hard towards looking at outputs as well as inputs.
Frankly, it is all that we have.
Indeed, it seems possible that that contribution will no longer be necessary.
Some will say that it is a federal state of Europe.
That will save us going back and forward through the report.
I will continue the consensus by warmly welcoming the bill.
That is my interpretation, but I do not claim to be a great lexicographer.
Taxing land cannot distort the economy in the way that income tax can do.
That is when we bring in complexity.
However, it was entirely his decision to raise that issue.
The petition requests that public finance be provided to fund a Scottish Borders rail link.
I said that the Scottish Executive and COSLA were up front in that.
It must be about time that we had the outcome of that study.
That is the kind of thing to which I refer.
In any case, we do not intend one study to overtake the other.
I am not suggesting for a minute that we give privilege to other people.
There are still doctors who need to learn how to deal with individuals.
By Saturday, we will have lost more jobs than that memorandum of understanding promises.
Is your summary argument that things are a real mess.
Mr Swinney wants to come in.
We should just get on with it and do it.
Many members have mentioned transport.
The tax rate was not reviewed every year.
However, in doing so, it is important that I set out the following points.
I am delighted to support Alasdair Allans motion.
What work is or ought to be going on in that area.
Several members mentioned the need to improve our collection of statistics.
We studied the impact of the extension of the Jubilee line in London.
Some of the discretion over charges could also work.
That deals with the first question.
I will continue to take my responsibility to reduce the incidence of infections very seriously.
We are also increasing professional development to allow teachers to develop throughout their whole career.
One condition for us is that young people are included in the process.
In the end, everything comes down to an assessment of the evidence and the arguments.
Appointments and operations were cancelled, and general practice surgeries were unable to access medical records.
Your time on the committee was not a waste.
If members support that idea, I urge them to support the Executives motion.
I suppose that I am influenced by my experience as an adviser.
We have received apologies from Jean Urquhart.
People who come forward to offer that love and care will all be vetted vigorously.
I can say that we are talking about significant savings.
PFI should not and must not be used for local government capital projects.
It is up to local authorities to deploy the resources that are at their command.
Let us move on to another issue.
I would also liaise with Audit Scotland about it just to be clear.
He was briefly questioned and left amicably.
That is not quite the main message.
I do not know of a European study along those lines.
That supports the local angling economy and produces some fish for consumption.
This year, apparently, is going to be different.
I turn to the issue of fiscal flight.
Appeal systems vary considerably in Europe.
The debate will be concluded without any question being put.
I do not remember hearing him quote that figure.
It is almost a Faustian pact.
All councils aspire to keeping council tax rises down to nearer the rate of inflation.
I turn to what the Executive has said to date.
Your report states that the necessary scale of investment cannot be delivered under current arrangements.
I largely agree with Maureen Macmillan.
I warmly welcome the First Ministers response.
Good afternoon and welcome to the committee.
Those seem to be significant questions that potentially involve significant costs.
I will give a word of warning to the committee before it makes any recommendations.
Right now, the situation is blurred.
Allow me to put that on the record.
Every neighbour is created in the image of God and deserves respect.
It is not about numbers on doors.
Of course, nobody would expect the sustained level of increase to continue forever.
We are not in a theological rut.
That is the factual position.
Let us move forward to pass the bill and turn adversity into opportunity for Gaelic.
Local healthcare co operatives are the embodiment of what the cabinet secretary is saying.
A question was raised over which parts of the code were mandatory.
Do I have a little more time, Presiding Officer.
I have a very firm view on that.
I look forward to the future for the Crichton campus in Dumfries.
Liam McArthur and Rhoda Grant mentioned training.
It will also give them the right to adapt their homes to suit disabled occupants.
How could we tweak the mechanism to ensure that that is the case.
Are there any other questions.
Our written submission is looking ahead.
That leads me to two brief questions for Mr Allen and Mr Kelly.
I referred to a hypothetical situation, as other members did.
Setting out the general intention of the legislation seems a very good thing.
I think that Scotland will end up with a broader general anti avoidance provision.
If Dennis Canavan is looking for statistics, I will give him statistics.
I am not sure what you mean by local autonomy.
We will also look at tax changes that are proposed in the white paper.
I will allow another five minutes, if that is all right with you, minister.
A property tax is easy to collect and hard to avoid.
Substantial resources are being put into further education.
I am an able bodied whip for that.
The council was involved in investment in the Buchanan Street development in Glasgow.
At this stage in the process, there are a number of questions.
He was talking about a Tobin tax, which was not even on the table.
The Parliament has a central role in making that happen.
A mix of public and private investment is critical.
Who did you seek answers to your questions from.
Moreover, there is no problem with gates being left open.
I will concentrate on equal pay.
Will the minister give way on that point I think that he has time.
The referendum plays no part in the bill.
]I hope that that helps in understanding the process.
No doubt colleagues in the chamber will suggest their own.
That is a respectable way of dealing with the issue.
The Local Government and Transport Committee reached the correct decision.
I thank the Presiding Officer for giving me eight extra minutes.
It is multidimensional and involves not just the health service.
That is the reality of what the Government is delivering.
I disagree completely with Iain Smith.
There has been a misunderstanding.
We will start with Jim Cuthbert.
I give him that reassurance.
Other areas have different service regimes, attitudes and mindsets.
It is likely to be at the lower end of the spectrum.
Plainly, it is a huge and potentially valuable resource.
I have a question for the whole panel.
Local government should have independence of action in so far as that is possible.
At least this formula is out in the open.
It is perfectly possible that other people will blame me for this.
I think that that is a bridge too far.
Will you answer the second part of my question.
There were no spoiled papers.
The statistics make for depressing reading.
Thank you very much, Ms McMillan.
Clearly things have moved on since he got a ministerial position.
I can assure Mr Ewing that that is not the case.
However, I have made it clear that there are substantive issues.
I have an important question for the minister.
I never subscribed to that view.
It seems to get more complicated by the week.
We are delivering on it.
Those students bring a lot to the life of the city.
My thoughts are with all those families affected by the terrible attack on Monday night.
The initial two taxes are probably the simplest to devolve.
We do not need to be told what the problems are.
The Presiding Officers are bearing that in mind.
I am sure that the Scottish Government will release its points.
The report raises the issue of the gap that exists between reality and perception.
The Government in South Africa started with the very best of intentions.
That is an issue at the UK level, the Scottish level and the local level.
It would be risky to make that case.
I do not think that there is an argument for using only Scottish grain.
A strong economic case can be made for early intervention.
To ask the Scottish Government how it helps people with long term medical conditions.
The proposal that stamp duty land tax should be devolved fits excellently in that framework.
It was an excellent first contribution.
Barnett gets the blame, but it has nothing to do with it.
I hope that that can be examined later.
We will take forward a variety of measures as part of a balanced renewables strategy.
That said, it is incumbent on all of us to take personal responsibility.
This bill is about challenging the ways in which education is delivered.
Since the convener has raised the issue, I will follow it up.
It disregards completely the views that Labour controlled councils put forward through COSLA.
Tommy Sheridan is wrong on the first point and right on the second.
There is an emphasis on environmental studies.
Do you think that I could do that first.
Should I comment on air passenger duty.
But it is not fair to say that we have not responded.
We have lost longevity in the tax income.
It would give us an open page for deriving and designing our own tax legislation.
There is no doubt about that.
After all, the decision on this spending was taken before the tax was devolved.
It allows the opportunity, to which Jamie Hepburn referred, to have different policies.
The Government is misleading us by taking us down that road and misrepresenting the position.
They should look after the elderly, and they should get their act together.
Many Governments have wrestled with that huge problem.
I congratulate the minister on the engagement that he achieved at his first COP.
He made no mention of that.
I can quote to the cabinet secretary what Mr Quirk said.
Pinneys of Scotland is the largest single site private sector employer in Dumfries and Galloway.
As yet, that has not been clarified.
Salmon producers have also highlighted planning issues, marketing, fish health and containment as key concerns.
There is even International Monetary Fund work on the subject.
The press have also speculated that we have funding in place for the Edinburgh link.
I return Ms Sturgeons greetings, and wish all other members a happy new year.
There are concerns surrounding any way of administrating and collecting tax.
I welcome everyone back after the recess.
I support the Executives motion.
I was talking about rehab.
Our harm levels are now at an historic high.
You are not here to talk about anybody else or anything else.
Council tax provides us with the best means of continuing to provide services.
That is consumerism writ large.
In the recent past we have had an obsession with skills.
Does that undermine other capital projects.
Shona Robison and others raised the issue of the chronic underinvestment in dental services.
Conservative members will certainly not support the bill and support the committees conclusion.
However, I accept that the balance is not perfect.
Mr Morse, you said that you audit all systems.
Could I move on to the issue of corporation tax, convener.
There are different types of taxation.
I am sure that those employees are concerned about Tommy Sheridans scepticism about their employers.
I said that I am not opposed to ring fencing.
I appoint auditors to Transport Scotland, who carry out the audit every year.
You must ask a question, Ms Ferguson.
The issues around the European investment fund were developed by Unison.
In short, that means putting into practice the principle of subsidiarity.
Will she set out a timetable for the replacement of the Glenwood health centre.
The Executive is delivering such initiatives without the need for an independent review.
I know only one or two millionaires, but they are above the pension age.
It is regressive and unfair and we have the power to do something about it.
I will follow on from the conveners question.
I say that for the last time.
They were all able to produce factors that do not fit into the grant.
I will go on to a best man speech in a minute.
The second major issue is the nature of the council tax.
I welcome his question on the matter.
We are flexible about that and will continue to be so.
I have seen that done in other countries, too.
The UK regime was held to be a very fine example.
I hope that his comrade, who will speak later, will address that issue.
Let me cite one of my favourite examples.
Why should it work in Sweden and not in Scotland.
That is the end of the public session.
That is a necessary step if we are to move towards anything further.
We have to consider the context.
With our partners within our council areas, we have identified our joint priorities.
With respect, I do not agree with that.
Aids and adaptations are delayed because there is no local authority funding to provide them.
Next week, we shall discuss crime and transport.
Once again, they have done sterling work.
I do not suppose that it is any more complicated than that.
Yes, but I would like to discuss borrowing powers too.
They pay their bills, but often do without necessities to do so.
I would like to continue, if Iain Smith does not mind.
We have had a commitment from the minister on the number of salaried dentists.
There is simply no evidence.
I welcome the opportunity for Parliament to reinforce that message this afternoon.
That is because there is no definition.
Those industries are closely linked to the branding issue of clean highland spring water.
I accept that there is a problem.
Other people are more expert in the field than we are.
As I said, we have not considered the bill in detail.
Has COSLA attempted to allay the business communitys concerns and fears.
The days when rising levels of business tax damaged local businesses are long gone.
I agree that it is more desirable to have a basket of taxes.
The debate has exposed the very kernel of politics.
I take the point that Cathy Jamieson made about prisons.
Such collection will still have a cost.
I should declare that I am a member of the EIS.
As I have said on many occasions, local authorities are diverse.
That is because of the generous grant that the Scottish Executive gives.
I will not speculate on what that committee might recommend.
They found significant impacts over the period, mainly for women.
It would help if Lloyd Quinan debated the present position, rather than the past.
We have presented estimates for what it would cost to most effectively tackle that.
In Scotland, council taxs capacity is much greater still.
It is being taken by the people of Scotland.
The committees safeguards address those concerns.
As other members have done, I congratulate Andrew Welsh on bringing the debate to Parliament.
There is a lot of sense in that approach.
That is the accounting mechanism.
Legislative underpinning is vital in achieving that.
I hope that members will support Nicol Stephens amendment.
Local income tax has been mentioned.
Surely tax is regularly used to try to influence behaviour.
We expect every college to deliver courses to meet those priorities.
I have written to it in that regard.
I call Dr Sylvia Jackson, to be followed by Iain Smith.
Queensland and Western Australia do not benefit from their natural resources.
It is the most interesting commentary that I have yet read on the plan.
Adam Ingram has started a debate.
You are asking me to give you evidence.
Thank you for your characterisation of the afternoon.
Just this month there was some very welcome news from the aquaculture industry.
One thing is true  it wasnae us on this side of the chamber.
If it were possible for the Parliament to choose the rate, it could do so.
I do, and many members do.
The commissioners and the committees reports will become public documents.
That is excellent for me but not the slightest help to my constituents.
Have you calculated the cost of that.
The council tax has an impact on that.
Council tax is a devolved tax.
Ideally, the Parliament should have greater fiscal powers than it was given.
We have certainly heard a lot of talk about efficiency today.
By and large, the proposed councillors code is to be welcomed.
Joint commencement would provide an incentive to both Governments to negotiate a mutually acceptable position.
I must push Mr Gauke on this point.
We have not received that yet.
Your opening presentation dwelt on the grant distribution system.
I am aware of the work that has been done.
I will come back to the member.
However, the conversations have come to a new place.
Do you have an opinion on that, Professor Trench.
On a separate point of order, Presiding Officer.
The electorate will then be able to decide.
The Parliament will make a judgment in due course on whether to proceed with that.
My question is for the Cabinet Secretary for Parliamentary Business and Government Strategy.
It is a bit timid that the Executive will merely hold another review.
I agree with Donald Gorries analysis of the problem.
If the allowances can be changed, why can the rates not be changed.
An explanatory note to that effect was produced.
We are keen to expedite that.
I do not really have an answer to that.
It is an easy mistake to make.
We welcome the Executives commitment to consulting on that proposal.
I thank the member for that question.
That will be difficult, but nothing that is worth while is not difficult.
In fact, that criticism has been highlighted by GPs since the inception of CHPs.
My colleague John Farquhar Munro also mentioned that.
I understand that, so let me ask you to comment exclusively on your own view.
I will not give names, but I hear that line of commentary in different circles.
We have to ask why we are where we are.
It is a theoretical point, but there is no point in ducking it.
That has been the reality for every government on earth and in history.
We hope that that matter has now been rectified.
Those objectives will guide the Government in the formulation of its budget.
Perhaps the proposer of the bill will clarify the issue for us.
I do not know which model the OBR is using.
We have successfully attracted many companies from abroad to set up their businesses in Scotland.
If the sunshine boys are finished, I will come in.
It takes too long to get to different markets from Scotland.
As to how many people would move, I do not know.
I want to build on some of what Malcolm Chisholm said.
Therefore, the figure is a reasonable one.
I am sorry if I was not clear about that.
By happy coincidence, the water environment bill is coming up.
The strategy, which is important, will be here in the next few weeks.
However, it requires that everybody pull together.
It would depend on where they lived.
Today we in this Parliament have a chance to deliver just that.
We cannot easily tackle the issue.
That would not change if we had control of the business rates.
That borrowing does not count against national Governments borrowing accountancy requirements.
If we do that, would we then be expecting Visit Scotland to reply to us.
The committee should look for modest, incremental change.
The sum of resources is increased on the basis of population share.
We are back on to interrogating our paper, rather than the Scotland Bill.
We must separate the land from the improvements.
We will continue to push the matter.
How will the ministers intemperate language achieve that.
Thank you for that recognition, which I think might be a start.
That was the trick with Scottish Water.
It is excellent that Shona Robison has put this subject on the Parliaments agenda.
Overall, there is increased inward investment across the UK.
I accept that at the moment you are working within certain rules.
We are not asking for something novel or unique.
A range of reports have been brought to this chamber.
Are you content, Mr McLetchie.
That is why the rail link is important to attract growth.
It will not be perfect.
The councils thinking did not go that far.
The issue of enhanced devolution is too pressing to allow for that.
We are desperate for more discretion than we have.
I am not claiming that that is the last word.
We do not, for example, support the return of business rates to local authority control.
In other words, rent plus rates tend towards equality.
I have pleasure in moving the motion in my name.
I will kick off the questions.
Does the joint review involve COSLA and the Scottish Executive.
Finally, I turn to the often thorny issue of housing stock transfer.
To ask the Scottish Executive how the sustainable development strategy will be put into practice.
The issue goes back to the point that I made in my introductory remarks.
There will be clear obligations.
The debate is merely a beginning.
A similar situation exists south of the border.
The difficult thing is that taking that responsibility requires a lot of courage.
Again, we need to be in a similar position.
Introducing another subject is not the way forward.
There is a broad relationship between income and the size of property.
If all committee members can get up to Aberdeen, that is fair enough.
I have here a Lib Dem bulletin that went out in Fife today.
The committees consultation paper suggests that we are living in a time of exponential change.
It is somewhere between an international organisation and the top level of Government.
It is not nearly as widespread in use as people imagine.
The bill as it stands is not there yet.
Any ability to stack up on value for money is seen as a bonus.
It is new ground for me as well.
Let us get council tax reform in perspective.
I welcome the opportunity to debate this important area of Liberal Democrat policy.
It is funded, in the main, through the aggregate external finance grant.
We have seen much greater interest in Nordic co operation.
I am out of time.
Scottish Water was forced to make the changes.
That sounds like a proposal to reintroduce ring fencing.
 You can set up a legal entity for a few quid.
The same arguments apply to the devolved Parliament as apply to local government.
This is simply the start of a long process.
Furthermore, we do not have the Official Report of the evidence taken yesterday.
We recognised that as quite a significant factor.
I am sure that members will recognise that.
There will always be genuine problems when a rail link is being established.
The second issue was council tax benefit.
My question is for Moira Kelly and is on VAT.
You would keep all that, and the industry might even grow and have renewed vigour.
We must not be over simplistic about it.
The bill also makes provision for parents access to their children's school records.
And should include their adviser.
I give way to Mr Ballard.
That would be a democratic decision for society to make.
Will Keith Harding give way.
I know that that is not the favoured position of the Conservative Party.
I do not think that the proposal was not in it.
That is not intended to be any disservice to Tommy, as I think he understands.
Honestly, we are not bad people.
I was discussing Mr Ewings point.
I will invite comments from colleagues and perhaps come back in later.
Is it not the case that most of the risk falls at the Scottish end.
All five secondary schools in my constituency have been rebuilt or refurbished under PPP schemes.
Your organisation is concerned about poverty.
We did not, owing to pressures of time and resources in the organisation.
That is an appropriate point at which to conclude this evidence taking session.
The situation is a complex mess.
Presumably the argument is not to remove income tax but to augment it.
In Russia, for instance, the Parliament sets the tax rate.
I would find it useful to hear any of our witnesses comment on two things.
To ask the Scottish Executive how it is supporting community recycling groups.
Many of the committees proposals are simply unworkable.
If you are prepared to take a big risk, you can change things.
We could write with those details.
In contrast, the Scottish Government offers a plan and a message of hope.
I do not want to return to that.
So the calculation of the tax would be quite straightforward.
I want to ask about the proposal for a local property tax.
There is a great deal of uncertainty about what you are saying just now.
Any increase in allowances or any changes in thresholds will alter the base.
That has been the frustration all along and it remains the frustration.
I agree with some of the comments made by Maureen Macmillan, Robin Harper and others.
That proposal would have two essential principles.
It is close to being complete.
We as a Government do not underestimate the challenge in taking forward integration.
He is also entitled to receive all papers that are associated with the committees work.
Many of the key points have been made, so I will be brief.
You can see that in relation to healthcare in the United States.
No wonder support for the SNP continues to grow.
I have promoted and accepted a number of changes during the passage of the bill.
Or, indeed, any UK Government We all have opinions about that.
Aquaculture is a good news story and we must build on our success.
We want rights for Gaelic speakers and for the Gaelic language in the future.
That can happen if both sides are willing.
We continually place on YouTube videos that give interesting information.
I seek colleagues agreement to take an item in private.
Mr Scott, my comments to Mr McArthur apply to you, too.
If that approach was not present, the time could be considerably longer.
Conceptually, it is quite attractive, but it is actually extremely difficult to understand.
Who could disagree with that It is skills that pay the bills.
I am not advocating anything in particular.
We have been saying that for some time.
I am not a lawyer.
I am not party to exactly how the conversations have gone on.
We need to have in those sectors Scottish firms that are globally identified as leaders.
Kay and King stated that there wasmore anecdote than evidence of serious effect.
Those costs are not directly comparable with the original HMRC estimate.
End of story Should there be more scope for manoeuvre.
Frankly, I think that that should be given some consideration.
Many members want to ask questions.
That comment puts that into some context.
A new approach is needed.
I congratulate Shona Robison on securing the debate.
Everyone in the unionist parties supports the concept of a Europe of the nation states.
The question is what the UK Government will do.
The Scottish Youth Parliament is keen to see how we engage with civic Scotland.
Those are not inconsiderable benefits.
There are the reservation issues, for example.
With the benefits system, the banding and the revaluation, it can be done.
Yes, it is a risk.
That is what Scotland could do, too.
I agree with Sarah Boyack.
Much is being done, but we must go further.
However, it is not actually a council tax bill but a water and sewerage bill.
Many people automatically regard politicians as sleazebags who cannot be trusted.
Your submission says that the revenues that are collected from VAT will grow.
No member has said yet how we can cut council tax rates.
Of course, Stranraer is not alone in experiencing such a situation.
You are not here as a lawyer.
Is that or is that not correct.
The petition appears to be prompted solely by the petitioners individual case.
It is one element that has hit pensions, and it goes back quite a way.
There are, or have been historically, problems with over indebtedness.
I intend to continue to see that it passes through Parliament.
The blue symbol with gold stars quickly became ubiquitous in the region.
Even Germany, at times, is paying higher interest rates than we are.
You mentioned Highlands and Islands Enterprise.
I am not as pessimistic.
Thirty years ago, nothing much was happening in the Gaelic world.
The convener talked about fiscal flight.
Children and young people have different needs from adults when it comes to palliative care.
Some of the questions will relate directly to the financial revisions.
Voting for the candidates has concluded, but there is of course a third vote.
I am glad that we are getting something right.
I return to the question of bonds, which you touched on briefly with Brian Adam.
To ask the Scottish Government what it is doing to create jobs in Inverclyde.
We might want to return to that issue in the context of the referendum.
However, there is not huge mobility for those reasons between states.
Yes, is the succinct answer.
Children do not ask to be born, but they are born.
Why do we not just do it for ourselves.
One of those former ministers is sitting next to Lewis Macdonald.
That means that their priorities will be different.
That is a very hypothetical question.
My apologies for not answering the question on marine conservation.
The private sector and the rest of the public sector must play a part.
I am therefore glad that we are taking that direction.
We try to travel a pretty straight road.
The decision will be made fairly soon.
That is my basic argument.
I am concerned that a devolved income tax might mirror that and also become unusable.
The problem is that our system is not particularly transparent, despite what we say.
I call Dr Elaine Murray.
Many such bodies throughout Scotland help NEETs.
One could steepen that relationship.
Almost everybody who makes representations to you will make a case.
Our department is changing as we move into a more digital world.
It is not a fair point.
The First Minister has said that he will do it.
They should be able to access the whole school and all its activities.
If we are discussing Scottish independence, that is another matter.
We must welcome constant change, as that is how society progresses.
Can you give us a bit more on your thinking.
I understand that APD was intended as an environmental tax.
The committee should be aware of the difficulty with definitions.
MSPs will end up bearing the brunt of the planning system.
Would that be a way forward.
A wider range of taxation measures would assist in that process.
I welcome the ministers commitment to local investment.
We do not want life to grind to a halt or become abnormal.
Your position is that the Scotland Bill is the right answer.
The Basque Country is more affluent than Spain, so it can go down that line.
I am pleased that the bòrd will have greater authority and legitimacy.
It would not simply be a case of taking certain things away.
We are the true national party of Scotland.
Minister, is it possible for you to stay beyond the allotted hour.
People do not forecast recessions very much.
What changes would have that effect in the longer term.
The money was by no means for a rescue package.
There was much less scrutiny under Westminster.
I suspect that Dr Jackson was about to ask that question anyway.
Relevant extracts of the Subordinate Legislation Committees report are contained in the covering note.
BEMIS would never say that we live in a racial utopia.
The word academic has two senses.
I might take an intervention later, but I want to proceed.
I agree with everything that Judith Gillespie said.
If you want stability, you want excise taxes, whose revenue increased during the recession.
I have one very quick question.
Those concerns were shared by independent experts as well as the public.
As I recall, the question referred to the Barnett formula.
The collaboration would all depend on negotiations if there was to be an independent Scotland.
A variety of indicators, including deprivation and sparsity of population, comprise the distribution formula.
However, I assure them that if I am elected, I will ask for a recount.
Forgive me, but that is rather staid, managerial, civil service, policy maker language.
They are less complex and should prove to be more effective.
Is that a different figure.
The amendments should be to seek excise and fuel duties and a natural resource tax.
We have relatively high collection rates.
He may have loosened the corsets a little, but he has not solved the problem.
We are to see you again later, although you will be wearing another hat.
This may not be the right time to be talking about a tourist tax.
Finally, the member gives way.
It is a cliché, but there is a perfect storm facing local government.
I wonder to what degree you have been able to explore two dangers in that.
Some are being operated already.
I thought that your question was perhaps to do with welfare.
That will allow as many voices as possible to be heard in the available time.
They do in Scotland, but that is exceptional.
First, I remind everyone present to turn off their mobile phones or other electronic devices.
Nobody at that conference agreed with your proposals in the Scotland Bill.
Three ministers are involved in this sorry saga.
However, that is a different debate, and one that we have already had.
He is sawing away the branch behind me.
Sporting events make a significant contribution to the life of this nation.
The review committees position is that there cannot.
Scottish products sold in England would have to pay the English rate and vice versa.
Our education system takes a modular approach that can build on existing qualifications.
I thank the minister for that full answer.
I would have to read the papers.
Enthusiasm for the projects among parents, pupils and teachers is high.
As ever, the chief constable will have our full support.
That involves joint working between education services, social services and health services.
How many last words can we get in.
Therefore, having more women in the profession requires more dentists in the profession.
We have the opportunity to discuss the relevant issues in the Parliament.
I am not saying that that would be easy for the Scottish Executive to address.
Finally, we want to ensure that the bill does not harm the Parliament.
That will make his journey more effective and much shorter.
I am keen to build on those successes as well as to tackle the difficulties.
We have to get beyond thinking of education as merely transmission of skills and knowledge.
Indeed, the Government has halved its loan funding to that organisation.
I see that I am wrong.
That will result in even more unfairness in certain areas.
That is why we have produced the figures that are before you.
Sometimes that is forgotten when people talk about PPP.
The sector skills councils are an employer led approach to tackling skills shortages or gaps.
You made the observation that the block grant is based on a spread of taxes.
Dentists are contracted to the health service.
I served as a councillor and have known councillors for ages.
I imagine that the regulator will look to build on those strengths.
] There is even one about beavers, which I made myself.
It will not necessarily have risen since then, given employment levels.
That is not acceptable and the Parliament is right to be concerned about it.
As he is delayed, I am in the chair for the beginning of the meeting.
Those days are no longer with us and there is a changing environment.
I will talk about addictions today.
Scotland has the best of both worlds.
An diugh, tha suaicheantas nan land leaguers a tighinn beò ann an linn eile.
I am sorry if our answers are evasive.
She was worried about whether she could afford the latest instalment of council tax.
Gaelic is not at the periphery but is fundamental to Scotland.
I am dubious about the growth effects, particularly with reference to things such as VAT.
We need to recognise that the pilot fell apart.
My colleagues might like to add to my answer.
Local authorities need time in which to implement changes to their systems.
For the next item of business, there will be contributions in Gaelic.
Do you accept that, generally, that happens as gross domestic product advances and so on.
There are annual revaluations only of commercial property, because of preparations for computerisation.
That would deliver stability and would be more transparent.
Many local authorities face such situations.
We have been getting on to what we are preparing youngsters for.
I have said that nationally driven, structural change is not the way to go.
Could you answer my question Is my assumption correct or not.
You have been sitting in the public gallery, so you know the drill.
Nonetheless, those developments are very welcome.
I am not sure that it is defined in that much detail.
I thank the minister for his reply.
It is important to recognise where we are.
That is what I am trying to establish.
Whatever this is, it must be an inquiry of some kind.
Our aspirations for income in Scotland are without ceiling.
This has been a helpful session and I thank you for your attendance.
You can certainly do that.
With one slight reservation, I think that that is an appropriate use of devolution.
That is clearly something that needs to be discussed with the UK Government.
I thank Shona Robison for lodging her motion and wish the project well.
I welcome Iain Gray MSP to the committee.
We must realise that Glasgow airport could have value as a hub.
Such things come very rarely.
If he thinks that they are right, he should have the decency to accept that.
It is a question of how we proceed.
Where is that very clear relationship.
Let us remember where we came from.
That cannot be good for Scotland.
Fishing is a case in point.
They are to be welcomed.
I agree, but that is a problem that we face at the moment.
I will take questions from members.
The focus of the UK Government and HMRC is on implementation.
We look forward to that.
We will leave it there.
There have been other forums, but not that particular one.
To try to maintain momentum, the council decided not to stand down the project team.
The next line concerns process mapping.
You do not look very content, Mr Don, but are you finished.
There is no reason why they would act in such a way.
I trust that the deputy minister will address that question when he winds up.
I look forward to that debate with relish.
Members ought to be aware of an interesting thing.
There are a lot of questions about how the budgets will operate in practice.
You would then have an overhead to worry about.
As you point out, non domestic rates are revalued every five years.
Such issues will be considered as part of the review.
We are grateful to each and every one of them.
The final method of adjusting the block grant deduction is simply not to do it.
Each tier should, over time, become more responsible for raising its revenue.
Will the member take an intervention.
We have had the poll tax, which was the Tory solution for local taxation.
The main plank of my argument is probably about the level of anti avoidance.
Are you talking about that sort of period.
We are talking about a dimension rather than a complete blockage.
I will do so, Presiding Officer.
The Liberal Democrats are the last people to talk about muddled words or muddled thinking.
We must ensure that we reform and transform services.
Their disagreement is silly and needs to be sorted out as soon as possible.
We need to have a sense of Scottishness.
I am very much in favour of moving in that direction.
The minister would do well to consider that.
As Iain Smith said, it was good weekend reading.
There is a big picture there.
That will have a significant impact on tax revenues in the future.
I have a brief question for each of our panellists.
We wish him every success in his new position.
It would be a rolling inquiry and we would have a monitoring role.
Andrew, you seem to be drifting back towards interrogation of the council tax.
The report is a very substantial and well researched piece of work.
We must remember that a lot of expenditure is still done on a UK basis.
I have two questions on that.
Other people are doing things, too.
Shona Robison spoke about chronic underfunding and underinvestment in NHS dentistry.
I am wholly in favour of subsidiarity.
Our approach is designed to have the biggest possible impact.
From personal experience, I know that I do not like having different pots.
Airports everywhere now have rail links.
Devolving corporation tax into national areas does not come cheap.
The major issue, which Jimmy Andrews identified, is the grant distribution system.
I caution members who wish to intervene, because I have much ground to cover.
I do not know who else expected us to undertake such an examination.
Communities lead the process and make it successful.
My experience as an accountant is that these things are negotiable.
We have to agree what is proposed before names are suggested.
The Deputy First Minister is hiding behind due process.
As several members have said, there are gaps in the research.
The statement that I made is based on common sense and realism.
However, as has been said, sometimes those measures do not work.
I am not trying to put you on the spot.
I thank my friend Alasdair Allan for securing the debate.
There is hope for communities and businesses, which wrestle daily with inadequate infrastructure.
Some good speeches have been made.
We welcome the committees decision to commission independent research on that issue.
I welcome the Health Committees research report.
On my left is Duncan Pickard, who is also a director of Land Reform Scotland.
I presume that you have had some negotiations on how that would be achieved.
We must show that we care about all our cities.
There is a cost attached to that.
I can say that from experience.
You hope that there will be less avoidance.
We recognise that we must give the business sector reassurances or guarantees.
Secondly, it places that strategy firmly within the context of wider Gaelic development.
The witnesses have placed quite a lot of emphasis on consistency and certainty.
Property tax in the UK is far more significant as a business expense.
The living wage is regional, is it not It is different in London.
There is quite a lot of concern that that will result in a shortfall.
I am sure that we will manage to meet our target this time.
We are trying to establish a public platform that makes land and property information available.
Work was done on the issue in previous decades.
Yes, that is what we are talking about.
You asked about three issues, convener.
We have no power to amend the wrongdoings of bygone centuries that led to emigration.
The challenges that lie ahead are immense, but the Government intends to tackle them.
The industry, the wild fish sector and the community must live in harmony.
The current Administration has just continued a very long tradition.
Perhaps, minister, You are the weakest link.
Such costs are worked out at a global level.
Transparency and openness characterise much of what we seek to achieve in the Parliament.
We welcome the committees proposals and will give the bill our full support.
Even across states, I suggest that the effect is marginal.
Earlier, you talked about answering questions fairly.
I followed what Nanette Milne said about training places.
It is the detail that I am asking about.
It should be straight with the Scottish people.
We talk about the man in the street, whom David Davidson mentioned.
The discussion on borrowing powers that you have just had was extremely helpful.
Our Parliament has insufficient powers to deal with the problems properly.
Furthermore, it is not local.
I turn briefly to Communities Scotland.
No, I do not think so.
Would you reverse all of them.
If they believe that, they might believe that pigs can fly.
We have talked about East Ayrshire Councils groundbreaking work.
They had a really tight schedule and a week long plan.
Good local food ingredients are great assets for Scotland.
We have a structural budget deficit that has run for decades.
Mr Swinney will have more to say on that issue and on joint commencement.
That is why planning is so important.
In that case, the six spaces would not be available to me.
Another area of concern is nursing homes.
Corporation tax and a natural resource tax might be the first two bids.
Charlie Gordon, in an excellent speech, made it clear just how fundamental that flaw is.
I will pursue that with the panel as a whole.
You gave the example of Australia.
Let me finish my point.
Accountability involves a degree of risk.
However, I look forward to the clerks paper on how we conduct our investigation.
Quite apart from his political naivety, the delay in delivering his tax would be excessive.
However, we must leave the door open to people to change their minds.
That will keep you on your toes.
We should therefore be careful how we frame this debate.
I think that the problems would be different.
Could you come quickly to the point.
Thank you for your contribution.
Glasgow airport is growing as well.
So you are mainly concerned about the words one of the main purposes.
I worry that complacency can turn to negligence if we are not careful.
Members can ask questions only for clarification or explanation during that time.
It would make a change, but that might not be the best change.
I was waiting for Mr Mather to get to the point.
We received two submissions from you.
I think that the agreement was that you would get to ask one little question.
I said no such thing in Chicago.
I do not think that that support should be at the expense of the individual.
I think that there is an issue of terms here, as well.
However, they did not get the result they wanted so it went back.
I congratulate Mr Gallie on lodging the petition.
Do you accept that the previous point is covered in the financial memorandum.
Very few countries can offer anything like that.
That is why I contacted Sylvia Jackson.
As members have said, that includes looked after children.
It is necessary to give business some reason to locate in Scotland.
That means that the programme may be subject to change.
You have given us some interesting things to think about.
They have had some successes and they have found difficulties.
I prefer to put the issue in slightly different terms.
Jamie Stone was right to raise the issue of modern languages.
I was probably alluding to joint planning.
Our proposal is really quite simple, and I do not understand the problem.
Will you give us more information about that.
The evidence goes both ways.
Other interesting points were made in the debate.
The motor car has created a fundamental shift in how fit or unfit we are.
That is the position that we seek to confirm this morning.
I move to the substance of the debate.
However, the argument about that is sterile.
Such leadership is beginning to be seen in London.
That is the postcode lottery.
A healthy housing supply forms the bedrock of fairer, stronger and safer communities.
We need to ensure that schools are equipped to contribute to meeting social justice targets.
There are two elements  employment in Scotland versus employment in the rest of the UK.
Members should use their votes to scrap the unfair council tax.
I should live so long.
The Queen is an exceptional case.
It is hard to follow that suggestion.
If we can enhance those in any way, we will certainly do so.
One Government cannot commit the subsequent Government to do something.
Also, corporation tax is very cyclical, more so than income tax.
I still think that that would be the wrong way to go.
Forgive me for not recalling the date, but somebody will help me out.
You mentioned the word clarity.
That has distorted the analysis and has led to illogical decisions.
That is not just because of Treasury forecasting.
There is no getting away from forecasting.
We are talking to the third sector about that.
Secondly, raising and nurturing a child takes a whole community.
Thank you very much, convener.
That will sustain jobs and help to see us through the difficult times.
Without rereading everything, I cannot answer them all.
I support progress in that regard.
Would that be attractive to your industry.
That gives us an opportunity.
The Poverty Alliance welcomes this opportunity to discuss the proposed Scottish service tax.
The bill will make it a requirement.
We treated the current GAE RSG system as an associated issue.
There are people in Fife who are very committed to looking after looked after children.
Do both organisations wish to make introductory remarks.
I am talking about cases in which a regional government did the raising.
I know of no other country that is as centralised.
I could not give a damn.
We hoped that your review would investigate the issue.
We do not know what a devolved system would look like.
The report offers a valid and serious contribution to the key issues surrounding the debate.
There is a long history of that happening.
I cannot provide those estimates or figures, I am afraid.
A wider issue is at stake.
Bob Doris mentioned the issues around carers.
I look forward to any comment that the cabinet secretary might have on that.
I have a constituent who needed to have a front crown replaced.
I believe that the Greens will sign up to that and move on with us.
I am sure that others will agree too.
If you extend borrowing space, you will run out of it less quickly.
We are in a time when it is extremely difficult to predict what will happen.
Perhaps Norie Williamson would like to add something.
We would have to expand the number of bands in order to reduce that tension.
That gives partial protection against forecasts of future tax take with an optimistic bias.
You said to Richard Baker that some things were still being considered regarding borrowing caps.
The measures that I am talking about are vital, but precautionary.
What about horse riding they said, Pass.
I am with you there.
Furthermore, there has been a large drop in attainment from last year to this year.
I want to explore with the cabinet secretary how accountability will be delivered.
Richard Simpson gave some forceful illustrations of what that means in practice.
Our submission clearly favours locally accountable local government and focuses on three main points.
The submissions must both be treated from that perspective.
That concludes questions from the committee.
The other key issue is funding.
Taxpayers should see no difference.
The introduction to economics lecturers sixth lesson would tell you that labour is relatively immobile.
He expressed a concern about the cost of pensions per adult of working age.
First, I remind members of a few statistics on prisoners.
To make that adjustment, we have to take great care.
That point goes back again to the one that Nicky Harrison raised.
Individual companies assist a lot of community schemes.
We talked about that earlier.
Some points have been raised about the appeal system.
CHPs are extremely variable in quality.
I had the wrong time in my head.
Therefore, we must be very careful.
I look forward to reading your submission to the independent inquiry when it comes.
Do you think that we can disentangle those things.
My next questions relate to the potential impacts of a local income tax.
We should keep them together by having one committee to conduct the inquiry.
I will continue the theme of intergovernmental dialogue and negotiation.
Today, we have round one of the convention in Brussels.
I do not want the paper to come back to first principles.
We shall try to ensure that the committee is happy with our proposals.
Those issues cannot be addressed within the current level of borrowing consent.
We are all concerned about the levels of unemployment.
You asked about distinctive Scottish features in education.
Indeed, transparency was one of the themes of the European Committee report.
The same is true of the upside.
They will not be subjected to humiliating means tests, but will automatically be exempt.
I am sure that, across the chamber, we all share that view.
However, some positive actions have been taken in Fife.
Would that not add complexity to the current system.
There is no shortage of resources being directed at those areas.
The minister mentioned growth, but the claims that he made were UK claims.
Without a shadow of a doubt, it could be a disincentive.
I am not clear how it would be.
That is the main issue that has been raised.
The third is containment and the prevention of escapes.
Obviously, the other parties are promising additional powers for the Scottish Parliament.
Okay, well, we will just leave the cover up of the climbdown.
I have specific questions for each of the panel members.
The view that COSLA has reached on the proposals relates to longer term predictability.
We have had some entrepreneurial successes, but they have been of a particular kind.
It certainly seems that much work is to be done.
However, we can consider things at a national level.
You just told us that Forest Enterprise objects to soft paths for cantering.
We must take that and work with it.
Is it not taken into account in the Scottish block.
That is a problem for a number of local authorities.
Which of those three options would COSLA prefer.
Are you talking about private pensions.
Everyone should concentrate on that.
Is that what you said.
As I have said, the tendency in forecasting is to flatten reality.
There is a muddling of words.
Nonetheless, we did not buy into that definition.
I hope that the minister has found it helpful in developing his thinking.
You are asking whether interest in the tax has waned.
We are taking that forward through the getting it right for every child programme.
We had a consultation on that issue for Northern Ireland, not Scotland.
Do we agree to amend the report to state that free milk should be available.
Well, I agree with you.
For such organisations, cyber resilience is about having a whole system approach to cyber risk.
In that light, we are firmly against the principles and detail of the proposed reservations.
We cannot have vast storage depots for out of date computers.
That work is on going.
My home county of Ayrshire is identified, quite rightly, as Robert Burns country.
But the individual taxpayer would not lose it.
There are no second thoughts whatever.
I would regret it if we examined only inputs.
It is also disappointing that the developing countries are exempt from the protocols.
He is prepared to cover expenditure and funding.
I do not agree that it is necessary to make it statutorily answerable.
My question is for Jim and Margaret Cuthbert, too.
We recently replied to it on the subject.
Nevertheless, it will have to happen at some point under the current system.
Has any analysis of that been undertaken.
The real problem is the centrifugal effect of that change.
However, there is the danger of having remarkable amounts of silly churn.
That is the force of the charter obligations.
I do not know whether I would use the word hopelessly in that context.
What I am saying is that the clarity needs to come from the Scottish Government.
We have heard about reducing resources and increasing demands.
It is about more openness.
The Conservatives are not afraid to show their unionist credentials in their official title.
Political pressure from Governments in the past two decades is partly responsible for that.
The lack of data has caused problems and inertia within the current system.
Gaelic is a part of our history, our culture and our nature.
As Mr Clark said, he consulted his members over the summer.
Should more emphasis be put on road maintenance or new road building.
That will be a fact.
It was interesting that you touched on partner providers.
Presumably, that will not discriminate between rich, poor and anyone else.
It is therefore important to consider both sides.
A number of members have referred to the importance of early diagnosis.
You have found income tax in other federal countries.
I can easily think of examples of tax legislation that has introduced completely new arrangements.
I think that what you have said answers my question very well.
Income per head in south east England is far higher than that in Scotland.
There are six questions to be put as a result of todays business.
That does not necessarily seem to flow.
The report would come to us only when it had been laid annually.
It is a clean cut and clear solution.
I will quote from a real life case study.
Will you comment on that.
A consensus is surely desirable.
We will have more schools and better hospitals and colleges.
The awareness level is low among women and sometimes even among health professionals.
I look forward to continuing the dialogue with ScotRail with a view to a solution.
I defer to your memory of the first world war, Malcolm.
People might not move it much because they will not be sure about its impact.
Something has to happen because we cannot have a vacuum of law.
I ask the minister to reconsider the Scottish Executives rejection of that recommendation.
I also praise my former committee.
To make a real impact, we must give priority to preventive measures.
The university has a Conservative association that I must big up at this point.
There was a need for data on the recruitment and retention of all dental staff.
To succeed, the employability framework must map out how that is to be achieved.
One depressing aspect of the debate is that an Edinburgh Glasgow rivalry comes into play.
That is something that I believe we need to change.
However, in practical terms, we would have to watch how we were perceived.
The same applies to previous Administrations, including the one of which I was a part.
Those cuts will be thoroughly damaging.
We should not be frightened by it.
That is why the Executives announcement last month was so important.
Responsibility therefore falls to us.
This has been an interesting debate, with a good number of good contributions.
The Executives commitment to provide more assistance for premises is certainly welcome.
There seems to be so much inertia in the system.
We must ensure that that happens.
Justice will therefore not only be done, but be seen to be done.
First, I welcome Mr Swinney, Mr Crawford and their associated colleagues.
I assume that every member of Parliament will agree that their work should be applauded.
We have not become involved in that debate, which is inherently sterile, as I said.
That would be very welcome.
The quality of what we produce in Scotland is high.
We do indeed have something along those lines.
That is the best way to reach a practical framework.
We must remember that, to some extent, we already have such a procedure.
I think that you covered the issue.
That is the debate that we have been having.
The consolidated fund could be regarded as the master account for taxation.
One of my favourite songs, The Long and Winding Road, was written by Paul McCartney.
We will continue to speak to the parties.
I should declare an interest.
However, he is right to suggest that much of the work is done before meetings.
I read about the bed tax proposal in the newspapers.
We have asked all the questions that we planned to put to you.
That comes back to what I said earlier about the disincentive to work.
We now welcome representatives of Angus Council.
The member did not take interventions, and I have only four minutes.
I am happy to point back to the election results, Mr Maxwell.
When you quote those figures, what band are you quoting for.
Services such as road repairs, recreation and cleansing are neglected.
With assigned VAT, you would have no control over the amount of revenue.
Nobody has ever defined a standard service for education or social work.
We must address the fears of not just the relatives and carers, but the patient.
We thought we had enough heat generating capacity in the council.
We must upgrade access to the whole railway network in the east.
Links and attachments are common in the workplace and that is why they are exploited.
You should make your presentation and the committee will then ask questions.
I am delighted to support the petition.
On the other hand, I understand the danger of tokenism in this situation.
They said, Well lose thousands of jobs.
At the heart of the issue is the identification of Scottish taxpayers.
They also have the notion of social partnership.
The purpose of a feasibility study is to examine the feasibility of a proposal.
I congratulate Jean Turner on that moving speech.
Surely, in looking at future finances, there are other factors apart from just need.
People left and went into apprenticeships in car production.
I confirm that the same price basis is used.
The controller says that large swathes of Philadelphia are blighted by the flight of population.
Is some of it mandatory or is it all discretionary.
That is our aim and we note that it is also yours.
The time is right to act.
Are you looking for an overall increase in tax take.
There must be a link with taxation.
Bluntly, the relatively poor die younger.
The committee also recommended that the Executive should develop alternatives to PFI and PPP.
In particular, the economic and job creating powers in the bill are very limited.
Mr Troup talked about how much of the receipts will be allocated to Scotland.
Is there a need for improvement on that situation.
I congratulate the Local Government Committee on proposing a local income tax.
I was not intending to.
In that vein, I invite members to ask questions.
The Bank will have no public position in the debate.
We have taken huge steps, but there are still more to be taken.
In other words, we have to examine our processes.
That point was also made by Roseanna Cunningham.
We will continue to do so.
In that context, the case for capital investment to kick start economic recovery is undeniable.
There is a risk of that with every taxation system.
This is the lowest proportion in Europe.
It can genuinely help to support the work that is done by volunteers.
Of course, we will be doing that in spades under this infrastructure programme.
I think that there is significant potential for such eventualities.
The member is in his final minute.
That is a significant step forward.
I could go on citing such examples.
I do not follow that.
The principle is that Scotland needs to be able to borrow appropriately.
I hope that we were not too hard on you.
Murdo Fraser, strangely, gave us a new consensus spirit.
We can all agree on that.
I see that that fact is being acknowledged by various people in the chamber.
I do not want to underplay the councils hand.
I recommend that we set ourselves guidelines for partnerships with other regions.
The debate is opening up and, post referendum, the scenario will be quite interesting.
Other parties will say that corporation tax is the key one.
That is where the positive discussions will be.
Alasdair Morrison made an important point about the functions of the bòrd.
I have done that and I will continue to do it.
That is a laudable aim, but how would you go about achieving it.
Will you explain that to us.
It could be argued that the UK Government dismissed that proposal a little too readily.
Those steps would not take that long.
I think that that will be a very difficult context.
The part of your submission on changes to council tax does not mention revaluation.
Perhaps the highlight for both of us was Gypsy Amalia.
However, that does not stop you assigning tax revenues.
The Executive should not deal with such matters by giving away our right to legislate.
For me, the benefits need to be demonstrated in relatively specific terms.
Sorry, but that is the general view.
Ownership of property is not as clear as one might think.
I can give some names.
I therefore ask her a simpler question.
Perhaps I can set Des McNultys mind at ease.
We need to ask ourselves, as individuals, how our behaviour impacts on the environment.
In Canada we are much nastier than that.
The outline business case was put together with the assistance of external advisers.
I am sure the committee will have an interesting session with Mr Gauke.
There are also other potential private sector partners.
We are still trying to catch up.
It has taken a long time.
I would like him to expand on the point.
I do not think that they would.
Underneath that, there will be more detailed and more operationally orientated memorandums of understanding.
I believe that other countries across the European Union would respect it.
She said that we were not starting off with a blank sheet.
I congratulate him on bringing the issue before the Parliament today.
Given the volumes of things that you have to go through, it is a nightmare.
Let us take each of those two measures in turn.
However, we have a Scottish Parliament, which should look after the Scottish economy.
Mr Johnstone, I have to ask you to conclude now.
Robin also attended a meeting of the tripartite working group.
I am thinking about what constituents have said to me.
Everyone tells me that, from a Scottish perspective, they want to do business globally.
Big changes and education are tied together.
Councillor Watters referred to non domestic rates.
It sounds as though other views might have been expressed to you.
To be fair, that is something that HMRC has done increasingly over the years.
The situation in Northern Ireland is different from that in Scotland.
That is an important task for this country, whatever the outcome of the referendum.
No decisions have been taken on how the measure will be applied in Scotland.
Certainly, it seems that it is not enough for the BDA.
Their work with all its interest and variety continues.
In that context, Lloyd Quinans analysis of the situation is fatally flawed.
The cabinet secretary referred to flood management.
Good progress is being made.
That is defined in the bill.
I take it that you would agree.
Yet again, the SNP opposed stock transfer.
It is often said that Scotland would have to apply for membership of the EU.
The timescale could therefore be an issue.
That proposal was rejected by both the previous and current Governments.
I hope that Bill Aitken will accept that he is plain wrong.
At the moment, you in the Parliament have no capacity to do that.
Willie Rennie has a question on a specific subject.
I have a final question.
There are a number of reasons for that.
However, Police Scotland has no plans, at this initial stage, to do so.
You are talking about a needs adjustment.
That petition was submitted by the Confederation of United Kingdom Coal Producers.
There has been a realisation that the agenda has focused on backroom services.
That is why I asked what cushioning would be available.
I am interested in how it can do both those things.
It is strange that the Government seems to be increasing the bureaucracy surrounding fish farming.
Edinburgh is one of the great capitals of Europe.
David, I just wanted to raise those points with you.
The central belt approach now seems to have been rolled out across Scotland.
I do not accept any of that.
We could try to relate what people think they finance to what they pay.
Notwithstanding that, we have heard about innovative solutions that allow everybody to be accommodated.
With respect, like all organisations, we can give our views.
I know that none of you is an oil economist.
Effectively, the figure of nil has been put in.
I want to make progress.
My final point is about revaluations.
We want a smarter Scotland.
I think that we have said enough on the subject.
That is an excellent idea.
Waiting times have been reduced in the majority of NHS boards.
Any taxation system or reform of it has winners and losers.
Does either of you have any short opening remarks.
We have had to deal with off the shelf solutions.
The action plan that was launched last month will improve access.
Mass migration from areas of aridity to areas with water is inevitable.
He has been unwell, so I am glad that he is at the meeting.
Did you examine that and find it to be a problem.
I will give an example to balance the picture.
Scotland has been successful in attracting inward investment over many years.
It looks at taxes and, I think, largely refers to Institute for Fiscal Studies research.
It is quite focused in that regard.
I must ask the member to wind up.
I ask you to rule on whether that represents a serious contempt of the Parliament.
I am not terribly well informed on that area.
This is your last question.
The UK income tax system is exactly the same as that.
I welcome the committees support for a feasibility study on local income tax.
The stakes are raised and the urgency is heightened.
Duncan McNeil makes extremely fair points.
Amounts will be allocated to every department, non departmental public body and council.
I am more than happy to ask the commissioner to examine some of those matters.
How can you justify that.
Kate Maclean gave us details of her professional involvement in oral health assessments.
I flagged up transport as I did because I had two concerns in mind.
The same thing will happen again and it will happen more frequently.
We talked about starting again from scratch and coming up with a simpler system.
It has been there a long time.
Any or all of those examples would be appropriate.
However, we must use the firm figures.
As I indicated, it would be inappropriate for me to comment on that.
Thank you very much for coming along.
That would help make a measure like universal childcare much more affordable and practicable.
A tax law system has to be flexible.
We need to talk about pressured area status and so on.
It seems possible to split up advice from a solicitor into different sections.
They welcome stop and search.
One could raise additional local revenues through the non domestic rate.
That is somewhat different from my point about drawing concerns to the planning officers attention.
Unfortunately it was, for financial reasons, unable to continue its work.
The member is not taking an intervention.
That is no longer the case.
How do you react to those four themes.
There is nothing more that I can do about it.
We must not underestimate the scale of the problem.
We can come back to that later.
I did not put it that way.
Again, there is real progress to be made on that.
The reputation of the Parliament stands or falls on the integrity of its members.
The company has to be equipped to pay those bills in the first place.
Mr Baker has a question on a different subject.
This is not just about curling and it is not just about winter sports.
We can then feed it back into the general public policy process.
Your written evidence says that we should retain the council tax, but with modifications.
Some face greater challenges than others in combining work and a family life.
Local income tax is the route that we should go down.
I am anxious that we should not lose any time.
The rates are all quite low.
There is a large set of questions.
Do you agree with that.
In the public sector it would result in significant cuts in services.
Like all members, I am one of the statistics to whom Bill Butler referred.
In terms of Government planning, two years is not long.
I will ask more general questions to start with.
You recommend considering whether councils should continue to have statutory responsibility for collecting water rates.
I am pleased to see that you have cross party support.
That is all I propose to say by way of introduction.
I say to Christian Allard that the bulk of them were non statutory.
Youth unemployment is a growing problem because there are only rather well paid jobs.
It would be very surprising if it did not.
It is important that the committee examines the Minister for Transport and Plannings investment priorities.
I turn to the skills shortages that we seem to have in some sectors.
It pursues small taxpayers thoroughly, but sometimes it does a deal.
I would not have thought that Scotland wanted to compete on low labour costs.
That information was duly given to her.
Palliative care services should not have to rely on charitable funding.
That is why Liz McColgan went to America.
That forced longer term finance into play.
I welcome this debate on the integration of health and social care.
That is something else to look out for.
I am comforted to some extent by that response, but there is another issue lurking.
In Scotland, those two taxes cannot be raised to compensate in that way.
I look forward to discussing that further with Parliament next week.
It is also a matter of other things such as capital allowance.
VAT and so on obviously exist.
Is there anything to suggest that things might not happen by that date.
Clearly, we all have a collective interest in minimising the cost of those systems.
Aberdeen City Council, like all local authorities, has an existing statutory duty to protect children.
Therefore, even in the current situation, things need to be addressed.
One would need to clarify that what was going on was a shift in financing.
So there are two bits of extra work.
He should examine the figures for Glasgow.
Support for the provision of a rail link is broadly based.
That has had an adverse effect on the important business of politics.
That is what the Executive has been trying to do.
In essence, nothing has changed.
It is a fiscal, land and social policy all rolled into one.
That was never possible previously, because there were the NATO members and the neutrals.
The can opener aspect is one that is not often used by authorities.
I have rather enjoyed it.
Those are improvements on what happened previously.
I remind members of our new found, very amicable agreement.
In short, we saw it as a variation of local income tax, which we rejected.
I ask the ministers to examine the intensive breeding of animals to produce cheap food.
I congratulate Andrew Welsh on securing the debate.
What matters is that the whole system of taxation is progressive.
I give Jack McConnell this assurance  I will always appear before the Parliament properly dressed.
There is a difference between the messages about risk, the message itself and the messenger.
That is quite strong language.
Things were very different in early local government.
If you are adding taxes, that is fine.
You recognise the UK as a country, but not Scotland.
I do not regard your questions as requiring forbearance on my part at all.
You said, quite correctly, that there is direct taxation and indirect taxation.
The knock on effect is that people stay in hospital.
There are quite a lot of controls in the process.
The bill will also generate extra resources for local government services.
It appears that they are not.
That is unsuitable for novice riders.
I am sure that the Government will be supportive in that respect.
I look forward to that developing over time.
There could be various interpretations.
When she started work, she saved up and bought her first horse.
It is practical and sits in the context of Peter Peacocks amendments.
Governments of all countries have not readily been able to cope with those two factors.
It is fixed and difficult to move.
A lot has been done, but there is a lot more still to do.
Indeed, this Parliament has regularly debated mental health.
Other factors were involved including the relative popularity of the Government of the day.
We could not simply look at one years funding.
We come back to a point that came up earlier.
Labour has actually attended only one JMC on Europe since devolution.
That is an inhibiting factor.
We are not against high speed rail.
I will try to address my remarks to both crucial issues.
One of them has already been talked about.
 They just want to cut the amount of money coming to Scotland.
I now open up the discussion to committee members.
Visit Scotland might like to reply with some comments.
Again, I do not see the relevance of that question to this inquiry.
We need a Scottish Olympic team for Scottish sport truly to flower.
Over the past three years, we have taken many steps towards achieving best value.
John Scott spoke about Gyrodactylus salaris.
We also have the council tax benefit system.
On cost, we are not starting with a clean sheet of paper.
As long as they have an autocorrective mechanism, they will not overstate the requirement.
Recognising those facts would have helped.
There is of course a legal requirement to report them.
I believe that that work has started and will continue.
Does either of the other gentlemen feel qualified to comment.
We all hope that the commissioner will not be inundated with complaints.
The Greens have consistently raised that during budget discussions each year.
We cannot grow the Scottish economy without growing the business base here.
There is the double burden of bureaucracy for people who are on low incomes.
I suppose that that is an extreme case, and too much might have been allowed.
The petitioner points out that the colours of all other national flags are prescribed.
I have some sympathy with those comments.
We could become the Delaware of northern Europe and attract businesses in.
We also want our children to be taught a wide range of subjects.
I would very much like to work through why that is so.
First, I congratulate the school on the achievement to which he has drawn attention.
However, I make a distinction between being fair and being punitive.
The councillors are already challenging their services to improve the experience of children in care.
It is clear that it is not.
That is fine in its place, but other more important things are happening.
This Parliament has the great opportunity to do that.
I am arguing for clarification one way or the other.
People are walking away from the matter because it is difficult.
There are also difficulties when prisoners do not seek treatment.
Brian Fitzpatrick is being sold a fairy tale from certain quarters.
Is your main finding that increasing local taxation would give councils more autonomy.
Stewart Maxwell will ask the final question.
I do welcome that and thank the minister for that comment.
That will provide an opportunity for members to come to terms with the process.
As I said, the disbenefits could be vastly outweighed by the benefits.
I will now open the session to colleagues round the table.
Basically, the money needs to be put into the approved scheme.
We will have just sat there and the money will have come in.
The member also asked about the termination of contracts.
Just so that we understand the terms, is that a fair summary.
Taking people with us is the way to deal with things.
Thank you very much, gentlemen.
There will be problems with administration and with the way in which debt is recovered.
I suggest that we start with financial issues and then move on to other items.
The budgets for cleaning in our hospitals are not being cut.
I am sure that Drew Scott will want to respond to that question.
I thank the witnesses for coming to give evidence to us.
What are the strong points of the current system and what needs to change.
I will be delighted to answer the committees questions.
But you would take a slightly different view, Professor Heald.
I do not know whether the link to the water rate is apocryphal.
 We need a bit more reassurance than that, if I can be so bold.
However, I want to be clear with Parliament that the Government cannot do that alone.
The four cities are the drivers of the countrys economy.
We have made significant progress in protecting and promoting the Gaelic language.
I will come on to talk about that later.
We can give them a positive future.
I now try to do the Gaelic in the home and ulpan courses.
The proposal for Railtrack is clearly to transfer it to a not for profit trust.
When it comes to the numbers, politics always enters the discussion, regardless of the subject.
Do you stand by the paper, or is fiscal autonomy based on expenditure and revenues.
Those are big numbers in our industry and big numbers in the UK economy.
Issues of importance to the people of Scotland.
Des McNulty argued that a genuinely fair system takes account of assets and income.
We need reform not abolition of the council tax.
I will now widen out the discussion to involve colleagues round the table.
I want to switch tack a wee bit to bring in Professor Ken Gibb.
We produced a technical note, which you have seen.
Why is there an extra cost.
I need to refresh my memory, because we revised the timetable.
Bristow Muldoon covered the loop suggestion.
The Executive says in its response that performance payments penalise overcrowding.
The implication is that all my successors cannot be trusted.
I echo many of the points that have been made.
Except that his submission contains all these fancy graphs.
Those are obviously matters of public concern.
Multinational companies deal with different rates of corporation tax all over the world.
If it is a very quick one, Mr McColl.
Excuse me, Mr Danson, I have asked a question and you have not answered it.
There is willingness to engage in that activity.
I will let Professor Bell answer that and then bring in Michael McMahon.
Have you any specific purposes in mind.
This is the only time that the populist right has been in Government.
Iain Smith dealt with that subject adequately.
Ms Baker, you can have time back for the intervention.
Our indigenous food products are an area that we are keen to see grow.
It is important that the bill will inject an independent element into the complaints process.
The power to issue bonds works in Canada.
One of the biggest barriers to horse riding is gates, as you explained.
Support must be given to sustain them in the most effective way possible.
Other things being equal, that would produce reduced take.
The committee continually monitors the budget process and the Executives priorities.
For Fergus Ewings benefit, can you confirm that I have got that right.
We think that policy should be developed in two areas.
We are not the same as other countries.
I presume that the situation is being dealt with with some urgency.
The computer does it in a nanosecond.
I see advantages in encouraging young people to invest.
I hope that the cabinet secretary will cover that in his winding up speech.
Although business rates are relatively small in a particular year, they are paid every year.
I do not think that the paper overemphasises change.
The UK already has double tax agreements with other jurisdictions.
I begin by talking about transparency at the European Union level.
That is an important dimension, which has already been touched on in the debate.
You make a valid point about Ireland.
We shall be looking at the whole area of local government finance.
I presume from what you have said that that will be reciprocated.
It would be politically difficult to make a significant change to non domestic rates.
That will be the immediate effect on the Scottish block grant adjustment.
Do the witnesses have any comments on that.
I have a question about relative need.
I highlight its drive on renewable energy, of which I am always a strong supporter.
They need to say exactly what it is that they want.
They can deliver improved health outcomes locally.
We are back to Mr McLeish.
Mr Milburn said The old Berlin Wall between health and social care really must go.
The first is on the waiting time issue.
I have three or four.
We are looking at joint resourcing there.
I want to examine the Executives interim position.
Well, you know the answer to that one.
Therefore, the money would come out of the Scottish Executives funds.
We have put money into the system for that.
It is about approval once we know the final detail.
What about the laws of politics Certainly.
Is there any academic paper anywhere that validates that claim.
The approach of local government on shared services so far has been a bit piecemeal.
We do not believe that there are economic consequences to be concerned about.
We are not advocating the complete abolition of corporation tax.
We would hope so, and we would really like to keep those companies in Scotland.
We hope that he will ensure that that is pursued.
That is a sterling monetary union.
However, changes could still be made to improve the system.
These ten days were the worst of his illness.
Those communities are changing and population trends are changing.
Scotland has had good success in attracting foreign companies, but those have often been subsidiaries.
You are agreeing with us.
Another member may be scheduled to ask about that.
I have no reservations about doing that.
The idea of local income tax is at a very early stage of development.
I will read a couple of quotations, because they are very interesting.
The rebate scheme that has been proposed would have minimal impact on Glasgow.
I would have to go back and reread all the marine stuff again.
I will ask the initial ones, after which colleagues will ask theirs.
People are living longer and more people are retaining their teeth into older age.
Could the case be made for the reduction to reduce over time.
Perhaps by accident rather than by design, Edinburgh is becoming Scotlands national airport.
The process of change will continue.
However, there is no such mechanism in place at the moment.
Competition is coming from Europe.
I went to the library to borrow the book Teach Yourself Gaelic.
We may want to clarify that.
We have received no apologies from members and no additional MSPs will be joining us.
I know that the police, too, believe that that balance is important.
We are working on our responses.
That does not answer my question.
There are good signs in the FE sector, which is linking up with higher education.
I will kick off and then try to catch the eye of other members.
How the committee becomes involved when there is such a qualification is quite important.
As Susan Deacon said, we need to make things simpler for people to understand.
Local authorities have done quite a lot of work to increase their levels of collection.
I am never going to get a completely free hand.
That would be vastly appealing to our members, even with the same rates of tax.
I am happy to discuss the technical issues that relate to some other items.
There have been discussions since then about the way in which that process operates.
There will be four minute speeches, which will be tight.
That is not the point.
The council tax benefit system is equally complex.
Then people called it corporatism and it was a bad thing.
Some members have referred to the CHPs in Glasgow, where the system just fell apart.
I spoke to both parties, and that dialogue has now resumed.
In effect, it was on the principle of the bill.
That is just a fact.
I think that the member would be well advised to change his last comment.
Indeed, the Canadian high commission might be asked.
I draw this evidence session to a close.
I disagree with Fiona McLeods proposal to hold not one but two committee inquiries.
We must consider that visionary loop.
I see that Dr Ewing is not happy with that comment.
It is just a flirtation.
All of those factors make Scotland a better place to do business.
I certainly would not want people to have that impression.
The bulletin says that a financial crisis cell has been established.
We already use slate in roads.
It is conditional on your wishing that in the first place.
Well, that would be wholly inappropriate.
There are two separate points.
As I understand it, that is allowed for in the bill.
It has been welcomed with wild enthusiasm by the business community.
That is the basis on which we have proceeded with the bill.
We are well on track to have it in place.
I will deal briefly with the successor arrangements for the social fund.
Legal advisers generally think that their professional privilege will be properly protected under the bill.
A local income tax, which people could pay monthly, is the right solution.
Do you think that the whole thing needs to be looked at seriously.
School assault statistics were going to be released, but now they will not be.
Comparison of the productivity of salaried dentists and independent contractor dentists is not straightforward.
However, that is a longer term issue that was not for us.
The problem is that it is extremely difficult to be sure of the effect.
People have to trust what they are being told.
Have I understood that correctly.
Our shellfish farming output falls way short of that of other countries.
She had her crown fixed at a third of the private price.
Although Mike Russells questions invite a lengthy response, I will be brief.
That brings us to the end of our questions.
Therefore, it will be harder to provide such services at home.
It is an issue that has to be recognised and addressed.
That all comes together in the need to resolve the relationship.
The bòrd should produce advice in the context of wider Gaelic issues.
I am defending councillors now.
There are much larger issues to do with PPP.
It provides an external view in addition to the view of HM Revenue and Customs.
Each and every one of us should fight the stigma of mental health difficulties.
That comment said the long term figures should be treated with great caution.
The renewables obligation or RO drives investment in renewable electricity capacity across the country.
Sweden also has more regular revaluations.
I could be questioned on the implications for Scotland.
I saluted him for his work on the issue and I do so again.
That would improve it, absolutely.
Governments have greater or lesser policies towards different parts of their countries.
We utilise the resource well and we work flexibly.
It was immediately clear that he was a class act.
Mr Bird, does your organisation agree that the levy should be devolved to Scotland.
We need to understand how we spend on homeless people.
We will stop the speculation, Mr Maxwell.
I am happy to disown that one.
SNP members are in their element today, blustering and showing all their negativity.
They should grow up in that culture, which must be reinforced by parents.
That means that demand for psychological therapies across our health boards is greater.
I therefore ask members to direct questions initially to a particular panel member.
There are two current constituency questions.
That is based on the OECD ranking.
I can tell Parliament that, in recent weeks, a series of discussions has been initiated.
It is a fair point.
I do not like some of the soundbites in the report.
The answer shows that it seems to be getting cheaper.
To a large extent, it is a myth that those problems cannot be overcome.
Minister, it is Mark Ballard who has been called.
Any cash that is freed up will be diverted to save core services.
I accept the need to have details on the mechanism for the no detriment policy.
Distinguishing those two elements is important.
I come with the guaranteed promise of our present and continuing prayers.
Many of the questions that I wanted to ask have been covered by colleagues.
I agree that it is unfortunate whenever there is a legislative mistake.
In the past few years, we have had rampant cost inflation.
We have a long coastline, mostly with high quality clean water.
Doing that would serve two purposes.
The Scottish Government sets out its position on reserved matters regularly.
During the investigation in the recess, I raised the issue of a parliamentary inquiry.
I am not asking about any other proposal.
There is room for discussion about how to deal with that.
You are in the middle of a five point scale, at three.
It cannot happen overnight, much as we would like that.
There is a great deal of interest in our Parliament throughout Europe and beyond.
However, we recognise the pressures that councils face.
The focus of the petition is on access to the countryside as a whole.
There are some healthy signs of change.
What changes would you like to be made to the grant distribution formula.
Convener, your question was about the ability to afford a cut in corporation tax.
First, there is a genuine problem about financing of the bills implementation.
Thank you for responding to our questions, cabinet secretary.
The First Minister has avoided the issue.
Unlike some other speakers, I am willing to take interventions.
That was not a good example of representation from our MEPs.
We tend to become bound up in measurements.
Everything has been about consumerism.
We consider a full rebate scheme to be the answer.
The minister should go before the committee to convince it.
The council tax knows no barriers.
The SSP will not be greatly surprised to hear that I am against the bill.
That is a good Liberal point on which to end my questioning.
I agree fully with you about that.
I will come back to that point in a minute.
Of course, that is not true.
It uses the most rigorous academic research available in Scotland.
I have thought about that, but I really do not know.
That depends on their circumstances.
I want to make one other point.
It is outside the Scottish block and classed as locally self financed expenditure.
Irene Oldfather is slightly wrong.
That cannot go any further.
Mr McLetchie, you have laboured the point enough.
We are delighted to have been invited to participate in this committee meeting.
You made some very positive comments at the beginning.
I could not have been clearer on the SNP Governments policy position.
Our recommendations have a fair bit of regard for that, too.
I reiterate that I encourage ScotRail to look at that.
I might be asking the wrong person about that.
Were Scotland ever to become independent, issues inevitably would follow that constitutional change.
I am not sure whether the judiciary includes sheriffs or temporary sheriffs.
I know that local authorities are struggling financially.
Joan McAlpine touches on important arguments and details.
Tomorrows debate on free school meals has been allocated one and a half hours.
The impact of that reduction is well documented.
The committee has considered issues to do with equalising pay and so on.
That is the way that it is calculated.
That is important for Scottish society.
Generally, the revenue is made up from central Government.
My understanding is that next generation broadband provides high speeds.
Mr Crawford made a point about the fact that substantive negotiations have to be undertaken.
I am not advocating that we examine structure.
That sounds good when expressed in general terms.
In the long run, we could examine the pattern of business rate income in general.
Many of those may be small issues, but many of them will be big ones.
All those initiatives are in place.
One of the bills key features is flexibility.
In conclusion, I want to mention refugees.
In any case, thank you for the explanation.
We probably do not have as much information on that as we would like.
However, in discussing the bill, we cannot know that we will reach that point.
One of the crucial sections of the bill is the section on education.
A number of ideas have been put to us, and we have considered them.
As long as we have been in power.
We should do more in this area.
It is good to see both of you again.
Are there certain public transport projects that you think are not worth while.
I think that the industry is embracing the approach.
In my opinion, you have misunderstood the evidence.
That would make things nice and clean, and we would not have the Barnett formula.
I thought that he had finished.
That is my only comment.
I feel that Evelyn Gillan did not give the full story.
Malcolm Chisholm talked about requirements on the minister.
We need the science to get better, so that we can be better informed.
The co ordinator would share their work with the committee, thereby ensuring transparency.
That is one factor with prudential borrowing, but there is also the factor of affordability.
I simply do not believe that.
It was unthinkable in the cold war.
Social care is rationed, prioritised, charged for and often delivered by the independent sector.
I have never rated Treasury forecasts as being particularly good.
In a fair and just society, that is surely right.
I welcome moves to use locally produced and sourced food for school meals.
I was not minister for tourism at the time, so it was all right.
I will come on to that point, which has been raised.
We want to ensure that local government spends its resources to greatest effect.
The first item of business this afternoon is portfolio question time.
That is the question that needs to be posed.
As members have said, we must move the service away from repair to care.
However, it would not guarantee that it would change its position as a result.
We believe that what we have set out is perfectly reasonable.
In Barra, Portree and Fort William, people demand Gaelic medium schools.
I am asking not so much about the staff costs as about the capital costs.
I realise that I am getting dangerously close to the fringes of cloud cuckoo land.
That is exactly why the topic has been looked at.
As Nicola Sturgeon said, Glasgow and other Scottish airports aspire to that position.
One was business rates and the other was the balance between central and local funding.
That figure does not sound unreasonable, thinking back to pay figures.
We see that in some cities in Scotland.
The Executive should get off the back of councils.
The ministers meeting with the Inland Revenue will take place over the summer.
Bristow Muldoon was right that we must make possible maximum access to the airport.
Some real care would be required in managing where any reductions would be made.
If any other members made a maiden speech this afternoon, I congratulate them as well.
Most important, we want to know how we will ensure that the strategies increase accessibility.
will lead to some improvement in policy.
I want to ask about local income tax and get back to the radical edge.
I used a simplification because I could not go through lots of different examples.
All that we are saying is that no one has done that.
One Plus submitted further evidence of a survey of schoolchildren.
We have also heard that HMRC is a guddle.
I felt a great weight lift from my shoulders.
You said that what I described is kind of what you anticipate will happen.
That expansion would be in harmony with the environment.
Thank you for the opportunity to give evidence, convener.
Both parts of the evidence are important.
As I understand it, that is how the virus was spotted and then stopped.
The ministers motion focuses on the important general issue of looked after children.
Indeed, it is time to deliver high value public services for the people of Scotland.
I conclude by asking something fairly straightforward.
That is making a difference in Scotland and will make a difference to sustainable development.
I will endeavour to determine whether that is the case.
I will make a personal response to that question.
That is one of the fantastic things about Aberdeen.
We will continue to learn lessons and to expand the work that I have mentioned.
I may be tight for time, but I will give way to Richard Lochhead.
Centrally determined local taxation is a contradiction in terms and is wrong in principle.
The Executive should deliver that for us.
That is not a prospect that many of them or their electors will relish.
I will return to the issue of council tax benefit.
I look forward to that.
I, too, congratulate Jim Hume on bringing the debate on local food to the Parliament.
I suggest that we pass the evidence that we have heard today to Visit Scotland.
It is clear that we do not have a big enough business population.
I did not mean it then.
Perhaps I can make a suggestion, convener.
We can begin with literacy and numeracy and take them to imply depth of understanding.
They are set out in our paper, but I will summarise them.
You talked about picking winners.
In fact, all conventional taxes damage enterprise and peoples quality of life.
That seemed to me to be a perfectly reasonable statement.
The convener introduced the panel as an esteemed group.
They clearly stated that the partly devolved arrangements had not caused them any problems.
Did you refer to medium sized companies.
I will use my influence as much as I can to get the best result.
I supported the principle of housing stock transfer, as did the Liberal Democrats in general.
Much of the information is provided in the spirit of being as open as possible.
It always helps to be present if one wants to persuade people.
I think that Lynn Brown used the word trust, which is important.
That is a major issue within the system.
There are case studies in members in trays.
In short, the plan is low on detail but high on spin.
We said, Well, wait a minute.
The UK Government is considering corporation tax flexibility in Northern Ireland at the moment.
I hope that the Executive will bear that offer in mind.
We would need to have reviews of other aspects of pension provision.
Campaigners such as Robert Anderson deserve our thanks and, importantly, our support.
First, Scotland has the highest rate of hospital acquired infection in the United Kingdom.
That is the basis of the measure.
Of course that area would not be allowed to cut at all.
In terms of the drugs debate, two things are important.
However, we should see what we can learn from the contracting process.
Indeed, drops in serious assaults and weapon carrying predate the growth in stop and search.
As we started late, I will allow one more question.
Perhaps that goes back to your earlier comments, convener.
We should certainly plan to build communities, not just houses, as Mary Scanlon mentioned.
Achieving that will require a number of changes.
That is certainly one element.
I want to be absolutely clear about that.
We plan to press for reactivation of the joint ministerial committee structure.
I agree with what she said.
The decisions will be taken locally, in line with local requirements.
I have no difficulty in saying that the authority in question was Fife Council.
There was just such a story in The Herald on Tuesday.
I hope that we can now move on.
All councils are financially responsible and accountable to the electorate.
The committee recommended that the concordats be revisited.
Other members should leave as rapidly as possible.
We must be protective of our environment.
I am still trying to get my head round that.
But it has cited you.
Annabel Goldie is correct on two points.
We have picked up a lot of those messages.
My recommendation is that we support the ministers amendments.
I thank Mr Swinney, Mr Crawford and their backing band for coming along.
No, you are quite right.
I think that we have treated the two witnesses shabbily.
For example, veterans organisations are more trusted than social work services or the council.
There has been an element of catching up.
I want to respond to what we heard earlier.
I do not think that we agreed that.
However, that is where it was coming from.
The Scottish Conservatives are certainly listening.
To sum up, it is about market location and infrastructure versus skills.
We have reduced ring fenced controls on local government spend.
Of course, the powers that the member is asking about are given in the guidance.
It is worth focusing on the implications of what the other parties argue.
I will refer back to the assessments that we have commissioned.
That shows what can be achieved by building a rail link.
It is not empirical evidence, but I usually use that as an example.
I invite you to join me for a brief prayer.
Liberal Democrats believe that health care should be delivered as locally as possible.
Ministers are unclear about their role and unwilling to stand up to London.
For example, Glasgow City Council is taking away nursery teachers and schools.
That is what the Fraser of Allander institute work was about.
However, it is not necessary to discuss how we would fund such a post.
As the member knows, we will have our own review of local government finance.
Raspberries are now an all year round fruit, as are strawberries and blueberries.
I am always happy to engage with her on the matter.
It is a payment to a lot of individuals whose circumstances can change.
We do not have special requirements.
There is no gateway by which to make those available to the Auditor General.
There are challenges running up to each Council meeting.
In that respect, stop and search is a positive thing.
That is either an error in our paper or a misreading of it.
I assure members that the progress of the study is indeed progress.
The same is true of food and drink companies.
First, that is a misunderstanding.
demonstrate ownership of financial plans.
I have a couple of brief questions.
That would provide the diversification that Professor Scott talks about.
The good news is that we will not have long to wait.
That would be a great step forward.
We need to change the way in which we deal with grant distribution.
In recognising the role of carers, Richard Simpson made a point about emergency admissions.
less complex and should prove to be more effective.
Can he indicate the Executives time scale for reforming the record of needs legislation.
That needs to be done in a systematic way.
In the final analysis, contracts are very important.
They recognise the disadvantages and they live with them for other, primarily political, reasons.
That depends on what economists call the income and substitution effects.
Strathclyde Regional Council and Shetland Islands Council were the two at the top end.
Developing rail links to Glasgow and Edinburgh airports can be an important part of that.
Feel free to answer if you wish to shed some light on the matter.
I would not go as far as that.
That is the best answer that I can give to that question.
Our planet is bathed in energy.
That will allow informed decision making for the first time.
We are all aware of other issues, particularly that involving the University of Glasgow.
We all have such cases and Jackie Baillie mentioned one.
I would be happy with that.
Derek Scotts evidence suggests that that was not the case with the National Bus Company.
I will definitely lodge some amendments.
The time to influence it was two years ago.
I was somewhat surprised by Eleanor Scotts speech.
The progress that is being made with the Scottish Government is very welcome.
Fairness is the answer to your question.
You can ask a supplementary if you want.
West Lothian Council has recently signed up to a major PPP agreement.
That issue could well be considered further.
For all those reasons, our aquaculture industry can do well and go on doing well.
The committee will watch for progress with interest.
We see the impact of that on vulnerable populations.
I expect Rhona Brankin to be reading the Official Report very soon.
To ask the Scottish Executive what action is being taken to relieve pensioner poverty.
We must also welcome the supermarkets increasing enthusiasm for the local food concept.
You said that it had not been revoked or reversed by any subsequent UK Government.
I have made the point about free dental checks in chamber debates before.
Thank you for clarifying that.
There is a long history of that.
Does the current legislation weaken the comprehensive ideal Yes it does.
We seem to think that we can manage the risk out of what we do.
I always agree with the Prime Minister, as you would expect.
Jim Hume made a fair point.
Will you talk a wee bit more about the potential for assigning VAT revenues.
Okay, so we have still to get confirmation.
I thought that Iain McMillan gave you quite a full response, did he not.
There are two parts to the SNPs proposal on the forthcoming years local government settlement.
It is very sad that the Executive remains wedded to it.
For my purpose, I need to do this.
Perhaps the minister could say more about that.
I remind everyone to turn off mobile phones and other electronic devices.
That is a strong basis on which to carry forward our work.
Which is his preferred option.
However, the reasons for that are complex.
That is not the case, from my reading of the bill.
The big problem is cheap vodka.
There are all sorts of safety nets and ways to tweak the formula.
They would be collected at source through peoples monthly pay by the Inland Revenue.
There is a role for COSLA to play.
I am a fan of locally based housing associations.
Denmark has changed its taxation system.
However, it is not just Alex Salmond.
I am sorry about the cannot dos on the other benches.
I am sure that we can answer that.
We have not brought evidence of that.
The evidence is in two parts.
The figures show that there is a cycle.
There are two issues here, the first of which is about additional investment.
Everything will be in the public domain and therefore transparent.
Like other members, I am a regular customer, up in the north east.
The issue is sensitive and should properly be addressed as part of guidance.
I apologise that you had to wait so long.
First, virtually all the methods that I mentioned involve borrowing money.
I was trying to bring out a technical point.
There are ways of introducing more flexibility.
We must rethink those priorities.
There is nothing on tax motivated incorporation and there is no assessment of profit shifting.
It would depend on the differential.
I will add something that might be relevant.
Would taxing illegal dumping introduce such a difference Will HMRC introduce such a tax.
I do not have the experience to answer that.
In Wales, there is a permissive power to charge full council tax on second homes.
Discussing rather than specifying how devolved resources for support staff should be spent is difficult.
That is because we are just waiting for you, convener.
The correlation between those taxes is very low.
John Swinney mentioned quangos, but we all know about the situation in the departments.
I will be very happy to update Parliament following that discussion.
Accountability can be described in a variety of ways.
I have a sense of déjà vu.
We must consider that carefully.
In defence of the Calman expert group, it did not look at that matter.
The health service is a prime example of that.
We should bear in mind the collaborative approach.
In its absence, we do not support the devolution of duty.
Up to a point, Lord Copper.
I will in a little while.
The public do not understand the distinction in law.
There is absolutely no statistical relationship between fiscal autonomy and growth, nor can there be.
That is why we are pursuing this route.
Youngsters need to be informed and aware, but the document is not the right approach.
Most passengers see APD as just another factor in the ticket price.
I have always considered it an honour and privilege to serve in this Parliament.
I remember debates on the issue when community health partnerships were set up.
There will certainly be strong dialogue between us on that.
It is not the children who are different, but their circumstances.
Over and above that, we are making a revenue saving every year.
Are they ready to go green.
Are those the people that the proposal seeks to target.
With regard to cost, there are two approaches.
The industry has not had it from the United Kingdom Government.
Many other studies show the same.
I urge members to support the bill.
Two aspects of the matter need to be considered.
Yet we do not raise the money that we spend.
Yes, I believe that strongly.
Yes, but all the other issues were covered.
It is worth acknowledging at the start that there are two types of cyber crime.
In many parts of Scotland, hospices provide support for out patients and in patients.
I try to challenge schools where necessary and support them in proportion to their needs.
Are a lot of sites appearing that you were not aware of.
Can the practical problems be overcome.
I am doing my best to answer the questions.
We are the lead committee for consideration of the regulations.
That charge should reflect use and should not be funded through local taxation.
Such investment grows over a longer period and is much more powerful.
Let us move on to the Scotland Bill and its details.
That is a difficult question.
Let me just amplify on that and also pick up on Alasdair Allans point.
Let us take Boots the Chemist, which operates on a UK wide basis.
Because of the scale of the turbulence and instability.
We have had an extensive debate with informed and considered speeches on this important subject.
I do not know the answer to that.
What is meant by the term risk transfer as it applies to trust models.
That is the basis of the court case.
That would be a huge advance.
There is uncertainty for staff, the council and the community.
They should, wherever possible, be able to follow the same curriculum as their peers.
I hope that he will listen to them.
We now have a Gaelic school with an English medium unit.
I thought that members from all parties made useful contributions, which we are studying.
I know that you have been sitting at the back, so you know the procedure.
At last, that made a difference in terms of progressivity.
Thank you for that answer.
Parents also told us that not enough information is available for them.
You have three minutes to make a brief introduction.
We can make a number of other recommendations.
Let me reprise some of them.
We must applaud QMSs work in promoting local beef, lamb and pork.
The report helpfully points out several aspects of that phenomenon.
I have listened with interest to the debate.
In principle, we advocate the full return of control over business rates to local authorities.
What is your bottom line.
The point that Mr Brown raises is interesting.
That question strikes me as being rather wide of the fresh talent initiative mark.
Given the choice, people chose ambition over business as usual.
The role of the teacher is integral to delivering that new approach.
That would have to be a good thing.
However, by taking a lead, Scotland can demonstrate to others what can be achieved.
A start has been made and I welcome that.
However, their average income is also proportionally higher.
Several key inputs have been made to the Scottish education system.
I and my SNP colleagues certainly are.
During our inquiry, many witnesses emphasised the need for an independent commission.
The extent to which they are voluntary may also be questionable.
We spent the last two weeks working on the Scotland Bill.
Once the freeze has happened, nobody will go back on it.
I do not think we agree that at all.
We are asking why it cannot be based on an agreement between London and Edinburgh.
However, as my colleague John Scott said, actions speak louder than words.
On both those measures, we are doing better than the UK as a whole.
I want us to move forward in a positive vein.
That is a matter for Parliament.
There is another relevant factor.
We need to encourage young people to take risks for success.
If it is difficult to get those countries to re engage, I understand that.
Obviously, it is a mixed economy.
I believe that J K Galbraith made that remark.
However, I would not want anyone to think that we were complacent.
The clerk has informed me that the technical note was provided to the previous committee.
I could not disagree more with the committee on that.
We do not have detailed papers, but we have considered the issue for many years.
Sometimes, we get things wrong and overemphasise some pieces of technology while under emphasising others.
Christina McKelvie has been delayed in traffic, but will join us as a substitute.
The scheme will be in place for two years.
Mr Macdonald will be familiar with the structure of the Aberdeen City Council contract.
We have advocated a simple core basis for distributing grant.
The benefits of local food produce are clear to see  it is not rocket science.
The member seems to misunderstand the financial figures that he has in front of him.
A motorist piled into the back of the horse and rider.
Considerable investment has gone into helping local authorities to provide access.
There is a fundamental need for democratic accountability.
To be perfectly honest, our thinking was exactly the same as yours.
The SPTCs submission contains a strong plea for teachers to be allowed to teach.
I think that such a mechanism would reduce the need for short term borrowing.
That is an extraordinarily convoluted question.
The phrase associated services covers planning for school trips and other activities outside school.
Although things have undoubtedly improved in recent years, there is no room for complacency.
We welcome their support and the support of other parties.
That is to do with accountability.
That is to be applauded and supported.
And he is not even a deputy minister.
We are talking about different assumptions but about the same figures, I think.
They allow regression analysis to do the calculations for them.
The minister is now telling me that he did not say that.
Changes have been made to bills, usually following discussion between Governments.
We will not support that, although we support much of what Mr Swinney said.
I therefore have some difficulty with the taxation issue.
That takes you back to the Barnett formula.
Those are the headline findings, but there will be more detail as we go forward.
Workforce shortages are the key.
That is what we are doing.
Joan McAlpine and John Mason wish to ask questions.
 I offered them two pieces of advice.
That has been a big division, historically, and that division continues.
I need compensation for that.
Carers organisations have a crucial role to play in the process.
We came to a consensus with others on the best package of measures for Scotland.
On homelessness, we must think about the challenge of mixed communities.
Nonetheless, we hope that the bill will stimulate continual improvements over time.
I give way quickly to Bristow Muldoon.
Can I just finish, minister There is a specific point that I want to make.
George Black also said that that is just a suggestion on a piece of paper.
Mr Love was going between the hospital and social work and getting nowhere.
Do you need a GAAR for two taxes.
The suggested action addresses that issue to some extent.
That is critical if we want to deliver on our objective.
When we as individuals go on holiday, we do not want hassle.
We went to the High Court in London and lost our initial case.
A lot of anger needs to be reflected today.
If Michael McMahon does not mind, I want to pick up on that point.
They have come up from England.
That might be an easier answer.
Enlargement will bring more nations into the European structures.
Inevitably, it will be in the smaller local authorities, rather than the larger ones.
There are no impossible situations, because no one is beyond the transforming power of God.
The system there is indirect instead of direct, which is quite a good system.
I look forward to further discussion of those issues during the debate.
We are required to report to Parliament on both instruments.
I have two other related questions.
The reasons for that were eventually revealed.
It was based on the example that I used.
You could of course lower corporation tax if you had the power to do so.
That helps to make theatres places that are different and unusual.
Northern Ireland is also undergoing a review.
There were perhaps three points in that question.
It was important that we made the point.
Scottish Executive representatives meet COSLA on a regular basis to discuss matters of mutual interest.
Why are we defining that as wildly fluctuating.
I am encouraged by that.
I am not attacking her in any way.
We are taking several measures to improve recycling and reuse and to promote waste prevention.
Mr McGrigor, you are in your final minute.
It is providing vulnerable older people in our community with free personal and nursing care.
We are looking at the issue carefully to determine how we can strike the balance.
The rationale behind that decision is interesting, because it is ridiculous.
She is one of the few members who makes Kenny Gibson look temperate at times.
There are many advantages in such networks, some of which I have highlighted.
They are very talented youth workers.
That body, which has oversight of the police, is the correct one to do that.
I believe that the bill will provide a strong foundation for confidence.
Having campaigns in different areas helps to raise levels of compliance.
This is a good day for Gaelic.
Support does not seem to be on a level playing field.
This is the last marathon meeting for the local government finance inquiry.
The Government has at no stage set out economic forecasts for the Scottish economy.
However we do it, we have to do what we can to support the industry.
I address the following words in particular to the minister.
Returning business rates to local control would not increase local accountability.
The debate is not about that document.
Of course, aquaculture supports employment directly.
We recently took evidence on the procurement of care services in the community.
It is none of those.
I appeal to the minister.
They are people skills and relate to the contribution that children make.
Our actions must match up to our words.
That is a complex question.
Other members have longer memories.
The manner in which we have looked at the different issues is important.
It is probably the most volatile of all the major taxes that could be devolved.
It will be interesting to see what conclusions it reaches.
As always, Bill Wilson was very interesting and educational owing to his knowledge of fish.
Such a process would mean much more serious debate at Westminster about thresholds and rates.
That is the same in South Africa, which I visited.
If that is indeed the case, it is something that we should support.
Those things cannot be ignored in the debate.
They want extensive self government within the union, not outside it.
Should that principle be considered in the high level policy submission that you will make.
I do not think that we necessarily commented on that.
Drawing exercises on a blank sheet never work in the real world.
There are arguments for keeping council tax even if we had a local income tax.
It was one of only two councils that made detailed submissions to us.
Can I ask a quick question.
The committee will examine council tax banding later this afternoon.
If your argument is based solely on the benefit to Glasgow, it has a downside.
Is that also a deflationary bias.
We have great difficulty in handling performance information.
That is the issue, because businesses are always trying to keep their costs under control.
There is an interim arrangement for which there is nothing to be said.
We would have welcomed more evidence at the time.
Neil Gerrard MP has tabled a private members bill in the United Kingdom Parliament.
As members have no further questions, I thank you for your very able presentation.
I recently hosted a talk with a speaker from the Danish cycle embassy.
Local government was then reorganised.
Every organisation with which I am involved makes its budget decisions at the margins.
At all times, we assumed that the same amount would continue to be raised.
Is that an option that would at least be considered.
We are not a legislative body.
I support the committees decision to conduct its own inquiry into local government finance.
The convener and deputy convener have raised most of my queries.
There are some strong implications for Scotland.
I have invited him to do so.
There are two issues there.
I have a question for Jess Barrow.
We will focus squarely on improving outcomes.
The actual figure could be lower or higher.
Professor Alexander said that there is less flexibility now than there used to be.
I was listening to some of your comments about local authorities.
We need to embrace all that.
The policy has prevented crimes.
We look forward to the challenge of developing housing strategy for the next period.
I am therefore comfortable with the way in which the bill is drafted.
The Confederation of British Industry and the Edinburgh Chamber of Commerce support the principle.
Then you should take that up with the Scottish Government.
We now have to ensure that the reality matches the rhetoric.
The policy would fall apart immediately on that level.
There are quite a lot of family households.
I am grateful to you for quoting such sensible observations from February.
The issue is far too serious to dwell upon that.
My views have had to be modified over the past few years.
Central Government has a stranglehold over local authorities.
Kids want to do this.
The report has been produced in the run up to the IGC.
We have been working very closely with local authorities.
We would support extending that into Scotland.
To get down to pure, simple land value is not straightforward.
However, we have to do more and we have to offer more encouragement.
The second issue that Keith Harding raised was the central local balance of funding.
It is important that Scotland learns every lesson that it possibly can.
As Robin Harper and others said, we want a greener Scotland.
However, the issue that you raise goes much further.
She cannot afford to go private.
We will draft a letter that takes account of the points that have been made.
The Government has exciting proposals to present on local taxation.
We believe that there should be flexibility to allow local authorities to raise income.
The fundamental point is that our sportspeople should take part at the appropriate level.
I am also concerned that you say Fewer appeals would be generated when valuations were revised.
The story is quite simple.
The Government has criticised previous Governments for borrowing too heavily.
Do I take it, then, that the SNP will support our motion at decision time.
I want to thank the clerks for their work.
The supplementary financial memorandum contains a significant section on individual kinship care costs for guardians.
It would be appropriate for there to be one colour of blue for the saltire.
If we are in difficulty in one area, we can increase income from other areas.
The model is one that is marked by equity and social justice.
That would be the average across Scotland for band D.
We apologise for the short interruption to the lighting in the chamber.
We would encourage people to get involved if they have the opportunity to do so.
Do you have a view on that.
Like many, I thank the public servants who responded so positively to that.
A number of concerns were raised by sectors, particularly by the business and third sectors.
However, we also support the furtherance and development of all Scottish interests.
The big question is how we achieve that.
Or one of the other taxes under its control.
That would not be the correct way to think about it.
If there is not good delivery of services, there can be waste.
That is certainly our experience.
One difficulty relates to expenditure based data.
National insurance receipts automatically move in parallel with income tax receipts.
The presence of Gaelic in our lives and culture enriches every one of us.
Like Murdo Fraser, I begin on a consensual note.
If you will give me the quotation, I will go through it for you.
What impact has that had on local government services in Glasgow.
Mr Macintosh, please come to the point.
We want best practice to be adopted elsewhere.
I apologise to the member.
Mike Rumbles is right to point to Spain.
I am glad that you mentioned the poll tax.
How can your assessment be the cost.
If anything gets in the way of that target, members will know immediately.
I would find that difficult.
I would reinforce what has been said about inflexibility.
I hope that you are reassured that I am not speaking for ICAS.
Do we agree to meet in private for a short timeMembers indicated agreement.
As a member of the Equal Opportunities Committee I participated in its disability inquiry.
That is why I made that comment.
I would reflect on the point that Margo MacDonald made about Edinburgh.
I note that Feld subsequently published two further papers.
That is likely to be the case in future.
I recall that Stirling Council was one of them.
I have a question that relates to national rather than local issues.
Convener, I thought that we had covered that issue substantially.
I believe that we are taking one small step towards making that a reality.
Such disagreements damage the good work of local government.
I put that, too, on the record.
As a matter of fairness, the situation should be reviewed.
Is that to reimburse borrowing or to pay for the use of facilities.
That has caused a decline in the council tax base.
Again, I am setting out options, not making recommendations.
Yes, the opportunity is there, but it is perhaps not dead simple.
The figures that I quoted are recognised OECD statistics.
Let the witness answer and then you can come back.
Those issues need to be considered, and that has been picked up.
There may be issues surrounding that.
The member is displaying his ignorance.
I go along with the suggested action.
His calls for the cabinet secretary to take control of the police are somewhat bizarre.
It would need to be adjusted.
Professor Kay, you have talked about the provision of infrastructure as a key issue.
The essence of the uniform business rate was to give confidence to local businesses.
Transport links are one of the most important factors.
That act delivered something that the rules allowed.
No site that would degrade the environment at any stage is consented.
I encourage the minister to respond to them constructively.
Many countries, often those with small populations, do better.
In essence, it was to do with the elasticity of the response.
It is only by dint of the compensation that it has not.
That takes me to a crucial point.
Mental ill health is not a second class condition.
What part of that statement does the First Minister not understand.
We will certainly pore over your evidence and give it due deliberation.
In providing our evidence, we are trying to indicate what we see.
It is right and proper that we concentrate on that detail.
We have made representations along these lines to the independent review of local government finance.
The remaining sum is for core services.
That reception was lukewarm, to put it mildly.
I draw members attention to my entry in the register of members interests.
Does anyone have any final comments.
Your submission suggests that we extend the council tax rebate system.
However, the point is that the SNP today stands accused of hypocrisy.
Through the bill, we will get a much better settlement for Scotland.
We have heard several examples of that.
This is not some amazing new arrangement, as it is something that often happens.
There is nothing new about such debate.
However, he mentioned delayed discharges.
It would be exactly the same for the aggregates tax.
No, they would not lose it.
Have you reflected on that at all.
Thankfully, that is to be met by the private sector.
I was particularly interested in the sustainability audit report requirement for the biomass stations.
As you have suggested, Reform Scotland believes in empowering local authorities.
Another is currently being carried out by an independent commission.
Huge challenges remain after Doha.
I shall not just be saying, Thank you very much, but no thanks.
A series of consequential amendments alters Scottish public authority to relevant authority.
Thank you for coming to speak to us today, Mr Moore.
I do not know whether anyone else agrees or disagrees with that.
In my experience, inward investors complained more about the IRS than they did about HMRC.
There are two things to think about.
Roseanna Cunningham mentioned the dentist in Stranraer going to work in the private sector.
That applies in particular to Luxembourg, where I have experience of working.
Of course, if they are not financial assets, they will stay here.
There is an old management truism that what cannot be measured cannot be managed.
It is staffed with very high quality people.
I would rather have a more transparent mechanism than PFI/PPP for funding Scottish capital developments.
That level of uncertainty helps no one.
There was no answer [Laughter.
We hope for consensus, but local authorities are individuals.
They are living, breathing places.
That means that there is, broadly speaking, a supplement of a fifth to a third.
It would be a pity to lose that part of the report.
This time, we will focus on local taxation and capital.
We are not giving a mental arithmetic challenge to the professor.
I understand that the Scottish Government wants more.
As yet, the petition has not been referred formally to us.
We need to understand the issues when the paper on excise duties is brought forward.
I am surprised at the ministers response.
In its digital form, its availability, integrity and security are critical to all businesses.
It is still fast, but I do not think that it has suddenly speeded up.
We need to take action.
As Mr Hepburn has raised the issue of the professions, let us go there again.
If we cut business rates first, the plan might get some support.
I thank the minister for that comprehensive answer.
The outcome that we are trying to achieve is what is best for tenants.
The steps that I have been describing today are precautionary.
If that is a Government objective, it cannot be delivered within the current settlement.
The system struggles to cope with that.
However, the two cannot be combined, so a choice has to be made.
The issue is one of fairness.
Any Government will look at its fiscal position and make decisions accordingly.
They would be additional sources of revenue.
Those disincentives result in less output in the economy than would otherwise be the case.
I offer my congratulations to Mr MacAskill on his election.
You do not accept it, but it was your figure.
That will make an enormous difference to first time buyers.
One of the main problems is that responsibilities in the matter are divided.
In other countries, determining tax rates is totally within the realm of the local authority.
No, I was not aware of that.
The study that we have commissioned is a central part of that process.
The cost would not automatically be transferred across to Whitehall.
I accept the Governments belief that legislative solutions to problems are not always appropriate.
We can agree with the SNP on one point, however.
They certainly work beyond the salaries that they receive.
However, the vast majority of people in Scotland would be better off.
The issue of a minimum level of service is extremely difficult.
Although he had the support of the SNP, he lost the vote.
I work for a university.
We are focused on immediate problems, which have become the starting points of the submissions.
As Keith Harding said, we are all Thatcherites now.
These are my personal views about equality, redistribution of wealth and so on.
We should also consider providing incentives for those with long standing tenancies.
I want evidence, but you are not giving me any evidence of asset stripping.
However, I am not altogether convinced.
There is not an issue there.
We have a very successful programme that is known colloquially as the environmental janitors programme.
You engaged in at least part of the debate that is going on.
It was clear from todays debate that the SNP has nothing to say.
It is vital that there is flexibility, and that is in the legislation.
I am not prepared to give individual examples.
The Salvation Army works for the likes of May and others.
We ask for safe access to the forest.
However, we need to accept our responsibilities.
The question on the motion will be put at decision time.
Sir Kenneth has said that he will come back to us in writing.
I am not sure that it could be achieved.
It would be helpful if that could be clarified.
Gaelic must not be seen as inward looking or it will fail.
The Lib Dems ought to try that some time.
There was a period during the past week when that dialogue was not taking place.
We are making real progress on that.
That is what I was trying to do.
The extra cost is for setting up the tribunal in Scotland.
The Scottish Government is committed to forward planning for the industry.
We cannot sustain those jobs.
Everyone then understands exactly what I am talking about.
I am pleased that other members have touched on that big picture.
A special allowance or safety valve should then be incorporated in the system.
I return to my question.
Let us have the airport links within an integrated rail strategy for Scotland.
No, Derek, it was one question only on the back of the previous one.
We need to address that genuine problem.
We should not blame users.
It would also give your income tax receipts a little more elasticity.
I wonder whether he asked any of those athletes first.
The ticks in the other boxes are also crucial.
It sounds as though we still have a long way to go.
Any legislation that we pass can be subject to review by the courts.
It is an interesting situation.
If you put the tax rates up by a great amount, you will lose revenue.
I guess that there are three broad approaches.
The Inland Revenue looks at the facts of such cases.
You talked about businesses versus consumers and you mentioned rail.
Perhaps we should pursue that a little bit further.
A classic example is Ireland.
The SNP supports the concept of a Europe of the peoples.
Lots of evidence came in.
I think that it is reasonable to say that.
Real power would be power over taxation.
That was about six questions.
Yes, I accept that the researchers remit was to focus on those concerns.
What were your grounds for deciding what a reasonable amount was.
First, the Scottish Government has produced a paper on corporation tax.
] That was the SNPs motion  scrap the council tax.
I welcome the Scottish housing support fund.
As a constituency MSP, I strongly believe that investment in Waverley and Haymarket is critical.
Mr Swinney might also want to address the fundamental issue.
I have not received any apologies for absence.
On top of that, the assessors suggested several things that could be done.
We should give option B serious attention.
Yes, there are two strikes against you, Gordon.
I have two things to say on that.
Council tax increased only when you sold the house.
Scotland should be proud of the international work that he described in Malawi and Zambia.
It is a supplementary question but also a point.
To say that change is constant is a contradiction.
Parties in the National Assembly for Wales have commented on that, too.
However, the inertia of what you start with is important.
Look at Glensanda quarry, which is probably the biggest in the country.
The financial services sector is acutely aware of that.
Politicians know they are but the creatures of the day.
There has been no move that I am aware of towards that.
They might not do that, but they might.
There are eight questions to be put as a result of todays business.
Taxes should not be painless or stealthy.
The approach that we have adopted to penalties in the bill is not entirely consistent.
Scotland could take a lead on the issue, which is arising throughout the UK.
I am sure that Mr Swinney would relish the challenge.
We have been provided with quite a lot of financial information, as you would expect.
For example, the costs could be very high for a boarding school.
That returns us to subsidiarity concerns.
I take it that you meant that therefore local authorities could set higher taxes.
We want to help them in every way possible to get out of their difficulties.
I am sure that the Scottish Government will take the same approach.
They cannot say, This is a new broom, without producing proposals to address the situation.
That money was available to meet the needs of the Scottish Executive budget.
Can you say a bit more about why you think that.
I am always happy to consider such proposals.
I have a quick question on the stability issue for tax collection.
I would not start with Professor Farrells premise.
The obvious point is that every service could go to central Government.
Six million Britons would like to ride when they are on holiday.
All members are welcome to see me later and take one.
The Enterprise and Culture Committee will also have the opportunity to contribute later this year.
I do not want to jump backwards and forwards between different issues.
I think that the key to that is welfare reform.
The continued development of tourism in Glasgow city is important in tackling that statistic.
The Scottish Parliament Finance Committee is considering PPP and PFI.
I will sound a note of dissent about the shared services agenda.
I will not touch on borrowing powers until later.
A sector profile published by Highlands and Islands Enterprise last year makes for interesting reading.
It is about developing in young people the capability to continue to learn for themselves.
Fifty thousand pounds would accrue to the Scottish Government.
I have some respect for Tricia Marwick on housing matters.
Therefore, the airport is vital for our economy, inward investment, tourism and jobs.
To be blunt, there is not enough money to go round.
Unchecked climate change is one of the most serious threats that we face.
A policy driver or series of policy drivers is required to make that happen.
I think that it is treated as a reduction of their expenditure.
That is a substantial part of the process of business investment and attraction.
Mr Eiser appeared to doubt the validity of that, which the convener agreed with.
Do you have another question.
I direct you to the evidence that we submitted, rather than get into point scoring.
The Parliament can then be alerted to the reasons for the delay.
That is the official response of the Inland Revenue at this stage.
She was not at all confident in me.
I appreciate that your comments are very carefully worded.
Scotland remains committed to the UN process and to achieving an ambitious deal.
As my colleague said, the range of learning is too narrow in terms of experiences.
Also, the OBR and HMRC will be working with the Scottish Government in this process.
I did not believe that it would come so quickly into force.
That is a critical issue because of the economic importance of those stocks.
Such issues can affect small councils in particular.
Aquaculture also supports employment indirectly through fish processing, to which the minister referred.
As I said, we have not had a lot of precedent for including principles.
Much has been said about the Scotland Bill, some of it less than complimentary.
That response managed to avoid giving out any information whatever.
The nature of the discussion means that they are a wee bit discontinuous.
We would not be able to get rid of the council tax overnight.
I would first like to ask you about the general anti avoidance rule.
We now have an utterly obtuse misrepresentation of my argument.
We have something that we can all agree on.
Robert Brown rightly said that Glasgow is Scotlands premier airport.
The situation is directly analogous to what happened when PFI and PPP were first introduced.
If Audit Scotland did not agree, it would tell you so.
For any industry to be viable, its workforce must be appropriately trained.
That would be necessary and desirable if one were to get the message across.
I do not know the details or precisely how big those magnitudes are.
The third area is to do with macroeconomic policy.
However, there is a commitment to quantify that on a continuing basis in future years.
However, as we heard from Duncan McNeil, access is not only about geography.
There are also the licences and their model clauses, which are likely to transfer easily.
From your professional expertise, you know something about federal systems in other countries.
There are concerns about cost variations, which Peter Peacock mentioned.
Just like with income tax.
The basis of the system and how much people pay for it must be fair.
That is all basic information, yet it is not readily available.
We met Executive officials and attended meetings of the Highlands and Islands aquaculture forum.
To ask the Scottish Executive what support it is giving to tourism in Fife.
It is also a pressing economic issue.
The date has implications for how the Government determines its budget and for the Parliament.
I have a long standing concern about members in this situation.
I must be attributing to this committee evidence that he gave elsewhere.
We will continue to monitor progress.
We can consider the issue at that time.
What does that mean in practical terms.
It requires to be worked on.
The Executives intention is that that opportunity will be taken.
Members will remember that Andrew Neil did not ask the First Minister just about that.
Perhaps I should have been, but I was not.
The land tax is national, but all the revenue returns to the communities.
I am a former member of the south east Glasgow community health and care partnership.
Professional bodies and higher education institutions could give that further thought.
Opponents of stock transfer said that it represented privatisation.
We have received written evidence from both organisations.
It is decidedly not a local tax.
However, I suspect that most politicians do not like to talk about finance.
You can perhaps explain it a little bit.
We can respond to only a fraction of what comes through the door.
I will say a few words about our evidence, which is on land value taxation.
Ireland offers more lessons for caution than for optimism.
However, that is not true in the bigger picture or in schools.
We are talking about integration of services.
We need to address how we approach training and education.
I am recovering from a migraine and my eyes are still exceptionally sensitive to light.
I want to pursue the theme of early intervention.
However, you have to remember that we were asking school boards.
The important thing is that the dogs should be properly under control.
I notice that the Chancellor of the Exchequer is dipping in with major property taxes.
I am thankful that the Liberal Democrats support such a reasonable system, which everybody understands.
Reform of the CAP will affect central and eastern Europe more than it affects France.
It will also entitle them to additional tax credits.
Option B seems to offer more encouragement to the petitioners.
I ask the minister to provide absolute clarity on her position.
The council is desperate to embark on such an agreement.
Let us first take stamp duty land tax.
We are pleased to support the bill.
That view has been expressed, for instance, by Jim and Margaret Cuthbert.
On growth, look at Ireland.
There are a number of complicated factors to consider.
It is more of a stealth tax.
I hear Mr Gray muttering that they were increasing public spending at the same time.
For that reason, I do not intend to go into further detail today.
We do not even know when the next such meeting will be.
She herself is the only obstacle.
That contact is on going.
Have you heard from anyone about that.
That is an extremely interesting point.
As you can see, we have been offered a fraction of that.
It will be most interesting to see what happens.
However, he also touched on the issue of the recovery of costs.
Scientific calculators and computers, for example, can do trigonometry and calculus.
The local community would like three projects to be advanced.
How do they do that It is probably done very much out of their thumbs.
This does not seem like a Government that is serious about tackling climate change.
I am providing additional evidence.
That is something that visitors to our country want to see.
Taxes on labour stifle enterprise and reduce the wage of the working person.
Also like the minister, I will mention the climate justice fund.
Jamie Hepburn will be followed by Michael McMahon.
I am glad that Shona has welcomed that investment.
As Robert Brown said, we should feel no shame in continuing to have such debates.
The Conservatives have whole heartedly supported Scottish sportsmen and sportswomen.
People clearly cannot be resting on their laurels in going forward.
Although we did not know it, she had a very virulent form of breast cancer.
However, we cannot and should not leave it to Government alone to tackle climate change.
Fifty years is certainly far too long.
We welcomed the consultation and the principle that small business must be supported.
Thank you very much for attending.
However, I flag up the issue as one that bears further investigation.
All the partners are on board to support that.
We will have to consider the effect of the industry on the local water environment.
You can stress test how much it might vary.
Some stocks, particularly of sea trout, are severely depleted.
We have powerful influence in the UK, the European Council of Ministers and the Commission.
I want to be clear with Parliament in respect of targets.
Multilevel modelling will not overcome the problems, nor will regression analysis, in my view.
I invite John Pentland to say a few words.
The committee will be chaired alternately by the Scottish Government and the UK Government.
Your committees remit was, of course, to review local government finance.
I think that you are right about the impact on families.
That applied particularly in Belgium and Holland.
Not every document is privileged.
I have quite a lot to get through.
Fergus Ewing and Sylvia Jackson want to speak.
] What will the First Ministers personal contribution to sustainability be.
That is not typical of him, but he occasionally gets things wrong.
That is clear from the report that was published today.
There is unfairness in the way in which cider is taxed at present.
The percentage of Scottish grain that is now being used is probably the highest ever.
As we have heard a number of times today, prevention is much better than cure.
Fiscal devolution comprises the power to spend money and the power to raise money.
and nature conservation should be devolved to the Scottish Parliament at the earliest opportunity.
He said of the First Ministers proposal I am disgusted.
It is really a matter of focusing on where we can add value.
That is absolutely correct and the right thing to do during a consultation process.
His reply was that the discussions are confidential.
Therefore, it fails the most basic requirements of a local taxation system.
As a youngster, I went to the University of Stirling, fortunately, and studied economics.
Unless a person is a house owner, they do not pay council tax.
I have one observation to make.
He argues that it is as simple as that.
Those countries teach foreign languages to their children from the age of five.
That is exactly the kind of information that we can disseminate through the SCVOs website.
That does not resolve the problem.
This is therefore about getting the processes and structures right.
That is not the same as zero.
Whether they do so by accident is another matter entirely.
You have one minute left.
Above all, they can be recruited and trained quickly.
I formally open todays meeting of the Local Government and Transport Committee.
I would be delighted to do that.
Delaying the decision just delays the chance to gain the benefits.
It is interesting to compare the two Administrations.
I regard that as a spurious argument.
It is the shape of the final document that will be most important.
I have covered areas that other members have perhaps not discussed.
What advantages will businesses in those areas gain Those businesses already have that dialogue.
The tax will therefore adversely affect the environment.
I ask them to be quick.
That is another big area.
The point goes back to classic liberal slogans.
I thank members for their attendance.
Again, I absolutely believe that after a no vote, there would be more fiscal devolution.
And they have broadband connectivity.
At the end of the year, there was a clawback to get the total right.
The member knows how short of time we are.
I am not convinced, but thank you for your answers.
The committee has wondered how much we can depend on HMRC.
Those responses hint at a more transparent way ahead.
Mr Macintosh, this is for you and for every other member of the Parliament.
It was also a period in which many aspects of Swedish recent history were questioned.
The efforts that are currently being made for the whole child are to be commended.
That is not how I would characterise what we propose.
Doing nothing is clearly not an option.
The inequalities that face that group of young people have never left me.
At issue is how it should be expanded, not whether that should happen.
I have just said that I would not go as far as that.
They have a longer outlook, so they seek stability and certainty.
Thank you for the offer to come back on that and for your attendance.
Did HM Revenue and Customs, for example, comment on the complexity of the system.
I assure the Parliament that our work continues.
You mentioned the admin costs of personal pensions.
Such taxes do not come under the power of Scotland.
He says  It aint necessarily so.
It is difficult to get to the bottom and come up with Europe wide definitions.
That depends on the swing of the pendulum.
I enjoyed the speeches of Mark McDonald, Christina McKelvie and Sandra White.
Primarily, that has been driven by short term affordability considerations in the public sector.
I will try to respond to as many of each as I can.
In that case, I will finish my argument.
However, I come back to the point that I made.
Should that not be taken into account.
I say to Tommy Sheridan that volume is no substitute for reason and analysis.
That would be very helpful for an awful lot of people.
The third point is on capital borrowing, which we touched on in our earlier discussion.
I invite Professor McLean to make some opening remarks, after which we will ask questions.
It is the evidence that the Pensions Policy Institute submitted to the committee last week.
That must be taken further.
I met representatives from the prison visiting committees an hour ago.
We need to plan for that.
I do not accept that it will be worse off.
That is the choice that we all have today.
The petitioner will have three minutes to make an opening statement.
Will you expand on that.
Do people agree with you that it should be the process.
That does not necessarily appear to include devo max, although it conceivably might.
Many members have quoted the figures on the growing size of our elderly population.
You have certainly not cheered me up, but thank you for your answers.
I am afraid that that is not an aspect that I have looked at.
Almost half the dentists who currently complete their training in Scotland opt to practise elsewhere.
That is efficient risk transfer.
There is nothing to stop such a reform of the council tax.
Much of the debate has been about accountability.
Similarly, for charities, water supply has become a major operating cost.
You spoke about non domestic rates and their impact on accountability and electoral turnout.
Am I right that that is the subject of the petition.
Our priority is preventive care for children.
I am not here as an advocate for the white paper.
The two councils made submissions on their own behalf and argued their own case.
I think I am closing.
Some dentists are selective in choosing whom to treat under the NHS.
That is where the Nordic aspect comes in.
Is it the Treasury that informs the Office for Budget Responsibility.
I have no difficulties with the council tax as a tax.
The scale of untapped potential to reduce carbon emissions by energy efficiency measures is enormous.
He is doing that today.
Those measures concern litter, dog fouling, fireworks and hedges.
That is a useful example.
We must look at the totality of the tax take.
There might be, and I will let Iain McMillan pick up on that.
The comprehensive model is, however, one of the key strengths of the Scottish education system.
We have heard a lot about economic buoyancy.
That method is proving to be successful.
We made two recommendations in respect of borrowing.
You say that deprivation should be addressed by GAEs in the future.
Nevertheless, your point is right.
We continue to invest in waste plans and the education that goes with them.
] Is it on corporation tax.
We will have to chew on that one.
Thank you for coming along today.
Those standards do not exist in social work at the moment.
I would have to look back at the details.
Local government is about delivering local services.
Different countries have different political set ups and different social inclusion policies.
First, the ministers office was not contacted today and was not involved in any exchanges.
Let me go on to some of the other people who have welcomed the programme.
The minister has to get a grip on the issue.
The Executive currently plans to issue finalised guidance in June.
He will speak to the Institute of Revenues, Rating and Valuations report.
Some authorities provide twice as much in home help as the lowest provider.
The special purpose vehicle sits in a risk free state.
Let us be absolutely clear.
My recollection of that entire period is imbued with it.
We have reams of well meaning legislation and policy statements.
It will be published soon.
I ask Professor Kemp the same question.
At the moment, there are four spaces, two of which are bookable.
The Local Government Committee has worked hard and has produced some useful ideas.
You can take individual years and they will point in one direction or the other.
That seemed to be the nub of the argument.
We have talked about potential benefits.
That is an interesting argument, and it is one that we have discussed.
That must lie with the Executive.
I will answer your first question first.
Our proposal was never seen as being the end of the process.
The UK is one of the most fiscally centralised countries in the developed world.
We all remember Prince Charless famous admission that he talks to his plants.
Lord Foulkes was doing so well, but he nearly lost me on that point.
I am interested in your optimism.
This debate enables us to share views and work together to develop them beyond today.
That could be a worthwhile approach.
It is inevitable that it has to be a fairly complicated looking bill.
We are sympathetic to that proposal and will consult on it.
Once you get into it, it is a long and complicated story.
They came after a period of huge division, rivalry and bitterness.
I will direct my question to Kyle Thornton.
Another area that the Government has not particularly touched on is welfare and benefits.
I have two points that are perhaps more radical.
At the moment, such mechanisms do not exist.
Michael Matheson made a particularly worthwhile contribution.
The Opposition parties asked for this statement.
Thirteen health boards were affected, and some GP surgeries.
The member mentioned the use of cereals such as barley from other countries.
I understand that Alison Johnstone has questions on that.
Let us take your example of the bedroom tax or spare room subsidy.
As is customary, I congratulate Lord James Douglas Hamilton on securing the debate.
I now call the minister to respond to the debate.
The committee has the powers to monitor that process through the normal channels.
I agree that presumed consent is a misnomer.
I will get the same revenue even though the rate is lower.
If we had more money, we could do more things with it.
I am optimistic, with conditions.
That is the precise issue in the EU.
I think that the refinements would improve collection.
They cannot be scapegoated by the member whom they have named.
Auditors have rightly praised Fife Councils financial control.
I am not sure that I can bring that off today.
I am interested in the revenue sharing aspect of your submission.
I am grateful for your agreement.
We probably all have good examples and experiences of that on our doorsteps.
We move on to questions about the aggregates levy.
That would allow the Executive to take account of the concerns of the petitioner.
Fiscal flight is a fact and Ireland proves it, does it not.
The big problem occurs thereafter.
That would be discussed once the tax had been linked to the Barnett grant.
Nearly always in or out of office, they are surrounded and sustained by great parties.
How much is the case costing you.
London and the south east is a city state.
When we legislate, we must do it properly.
Those outcomes are broad and a rigour and a focus should be applied to them.
 I refereed a paper last week on that issue, which cited all the literature.
It is what you guys want.
So all the other things are nothing to do with your petition.
One or two names have popped on and off my screen.
Nor does the Commission even claim to be specifically addressing the particular situation of Scotland.
That would probably mean that they should not take part in the planning meeting.
An election in the middle of the process might change things a bit.
The Executives response to the Subordinate Legislation Committee is included in the report.
I do not see a problem with that.
If a councils income from its business rates was greater, it would get less RSG.
There is a willingness at European level to move in that direction.
Moreover, because council tax is property based, it has an unfair impact on older people.
A low carbon, sustainable society means a healthy society.
There are two factors that might be a bit distorted in the first place.
The bill might increase convenience by saying that people should always keep their records.
There would also probably be no incentive to make cost savings.
That would not have been possible without a supportive corporate family.
Either or both of our witnesses may answer questions that are put.
Again, it would be a case of waiting to see what the impact would be.
I shall come to that in just a second.
People in Nairn can wait up to four years to see an NHS dentist.
That indicates our very positive attitude towards them.
However, there is a debate to be had.
That is all about keeping Barnett.
I will give way to John McAllion, but I dare not give way after that.
For example, pupils can learn the bagpipes, the fiddle and the harp.
That would allow the process to be developed, from which things could be taken further.
I notice that the Executive is not implementing the committees proposals in full.
He described our country as being in recession three years ago when it was not.
How valuable that exercise is in reality remains to be seen.
I encourage Fergus Ewing to concentrate mainly on the bill.
I take this rare opportunity to agree with my parliamentary colleague.
I thoroughly enjoyed being a part of the partnership before its unfortunate and untimely demise.
We are moving towards arguing the case instead of asking questions.
I will make some remarks on behalf of us both.
John Scott has raised an important environmental issue.
Locality based service planning and decision making will be key to such reforms.
That is slightly different from what Jackie Baillie is talking about.
We must not just move business about.
I have made my point already.
Offering warm words, as we have all done this morning, is complacent.
The Executive strongly supports the process of enlargement.
] There is a lot of muttering going on.
It is important that the people of Scotland are fully involved in that process.
Your answers have certainly given us plenty of food for thought.
Let me make an observation.
We have had an extremely interesting discussion.
Let us just look at some of that in more detail.
People would see clearly what was happening.
Would you say that that was for political reasons, perhaps.
Well, the risk from getting the figures in these predictions wrong, certainly in relative terms.
We must consider the totality of the situation.
I hoped that it would be more, but it is a good start.
I disagree in many ways with Ted Brocklebanks comments.
I can add a bit of clarification.
I welcome Duncan Shields to the committee.
I thank Rhona Brankin for that helpful intervention.
I call Margo MacDonald, to be followed by Bill Wilson.
The Government was committed to ploughing billions into the railways.
There are a number of ways in which looked after children are cared for.
The bill essentially defines relationships between the independent commissioner, the Standards Committee and the Parliament.
There are a number of factors to be considered.
Let us have a reality check.
You will get another cut in a minute.
There was a lack of adherence to the key worker principle in the pilot.
The water charges could well be the last straw.
Would you like to make any other points.
Even in China, we receive different corporation tax treatment in different provinces.
Presumably, that is why the committee is giving the bill such scrutiny.
I do not know whether there are a lot.
We are constantly considering ways of improving our schoolchildren's health and well being.
I said that I was angry.
A significant proportion of them would welcome it.
A host of issues would have to be addressed and costed in a separate exercise.
Do you agree that there would be an effect on their economic spending power.
The Glasgow members will not accept that.
At the time, the grant system could cope with that.
I give way to Dr Simpson.
As Christine Cooper said, the issue is about political will.
That is where we are coming from.
That will come through cultural change.
That runs contrary to what some other witnesses have said today.
It came out in the autumn statement.
I will open the question session.
Some local authorities have made slower progress than others.
That adds a little more to the argument.
That takes the one year risk totally out of the equation.
Therefore, part of our response must be to get the basics of online security correct.
If one council gets more money, another council inevitably gets less.
My questions are for Jim and Margaret Cuthbert.
My console has still not cleared and my votes are not being recorded.
I thank those members who came to the committee to speak on the petition.
That is the essential presupposition.
That is a further safeguard.
How do you respond to that.
There will be significant financial demands on the public purse for schools.
Frank McAveety spoke about desperate negativism.
That defines the block grant.
You know what your tax base is.
The matter is clearly too difficult for the SSP.
One device that Ireland used was a tax amnesty to attract people.
He knew most about the subject, yet his views were discounted.
Obviously, environmental implications must be considered.
I am sorry that I missed out on that.
It is important that we do not close the door on the idea of reform.
I exempt my trade of economist from that kind of reputation.
First of all, I welcome the recognition of the importance of the borrowing powers.
I am straying into slightly difficult territory here.
I can do no more than strive to improve it.
Ruth Davidson talks about all the things that have buffeted Scotland.
Can I come in I have the technical note.
Authorities also deal with housing and other issues for adults and young people.
That explanation can be requested by the minister or by individuals.
We must not have only one measurement.
I offered it in the general, not in the specific.
The age of people in the industry, especially offshore, is going up.
It is fascinating to see acts of the Parliament result in actions on the ground.
That is how far back the initial studies go.
The comment relates to the current timetables.
The vote today will cross a major rubicon.
As Alex Johnstone pointed out, that is a misnomer.
The council had no other specific taxes in mind.
That is good to hear.
The Scottish National Party fully supports that.
We can only add taxes.
I am happy to engage with members from throughout the chamber on that basis.
I am sure that he felt vindicated by the ministers speech.
If costs go up, I would have thought they would be passed on.
Distribution is a massive exercise.
We will discuss issues of importance to the people of Scotland.
From those principles will flow a range of mechanisms.
They are the professionals and they know what they are talking about.
Mr Davidson is in his last minute.
There are more women than men in retirement poverty.
Parents and students seem to see that happening a bit at present.
That is one of a range of things that the petition calls for.
Thank you for your attendance.
One approach involves thinking that welfare covers a number of risks.
We should seek the Executives view on that matter, for which it is responsible.
I was disappointed to hear about the revaluation situation throughout the rest of Europe.
Pensions are a perfect example of that.
The proposals on structural change also achieve a good balance.
There is certainly scope for an interaction.
A number of people  civil servants within the Scottish Executive and some colleagues down south.
Let us stick to the subject of the petition.
I have chosen my words as carefully as I can.
I ask the Executive to reflect on that point.
We do not need constitutional change if nothing is going to be done differently.
I welcome the opportunity to discuss and support integrated health and social care.
What happens when we reach that stage.
We are still agonising about the issue.
There should be co operation.
I will expand on my previous answer.
We can do that as well.
The committee clerks could liaise with the Executive on that.
They do not want to put their tanks on the lawns of my constituents.
A cart is specially adapted to take a wheelchair.
Okay, comrades, we can start the meeting.
That is extremely popular with guests not only from Britain but from abroad.
The aim is to get rid of slabs of tax and stuff like that.
I spoke against those amendments.
If both partners work, two people would be paying local income tax.
The first step is to devolve the range of tax powers.
The less risky thing to do is to stick with the Barnett formula.
They might well do that.
Nevertheless, many foreign companies choose to invest here, despite the level of corporation tax.
Surveys also ask slightly misleading questions.
We now take a holistic approach.
However, I accept that other methods might well be better.
He also talked about the block grant being a relatively good deal for Scotland.
The act should be a key milestone on the long road to justice.
It was as simple as that.
If you have two different legal regimes, you give companies the opportunity to start litigating.
You said that the bill had been overwhelmingly endorsed by the Parliament.
The danger is that the Scottish service tax would be a punitive tax.
We will shortly publish our response to that consultation.
The issue is to do with how people view democracy.
At the same time, he could gain a more stress free life.
I may have further questions towards the end of the session.
However, many members have addressed the substantial injustice that is associated with the existing system.
I welcome Tricia Marwicks remarks on the GHA and other points that she raised.
Mary Scanlon mentions construction training.
I hardly see how that would help the poorest families in the country.
The entrepreneurs whom I know show a commitment to Scotland.
I do not think that I am alone in finding that staggering.
We will continue to engage in that area.
I hope that that will feature explicitly in the outcomes in the national framework.
That is because of the inspection process running on for a long period.
The debate should not be driven by money.
As I said, there are many reasons for that.
Other committees have met in other parts of Scotland.
It is not the case that vast numbers of companies or individuals will relocate.
This is the place to commit.
We subsidise non payment of water bills.
In principle, I support the idea of having more national parks.
Saving our pals cannot be an option.
I was working my way up to it.
I remember well that I met Irene Oldfather on many occasions in Europe.
Why is that provision not in the Scotland Bill.
I think that this will be a war of forecasts.
Technically, the Executive could cut the money to local authorities.
Any campaign to eradicate that problem gets my support.
That is why we have given an approximate figure.
Employers are key to the agenda.
We in this country are doing well in many areas.
I congratulate Alasdair Allan on bringing the debate to the Parliament.
Obviously, I have asked a number of questions about the cost assessment.
All the information will be in there.
In that sense, it is restricted.
All that would be done automatically.
The principal has not sought such a meeting.
Such an approach will ensure that our schools are stronger.
I support and sympathise with the sentiment behind the motion.
Having more control over welfare and taxation may make a difference.
Hong Kong, where I worked for four years, is a classic example.
 However, such a model can also be used by other sides.
The report concluded Drunkenness has gone out of fashion.
However, there are no limits or thresholds within the provisions.
Yes, you are a lawyer.
The police want to do that on a pan Ayrshire basis.
That brings me to the issue of corporate governance and the role of Communities Scotland.
Tougher action is still needed on both.
Jim Mather is shaking his head, but that is the reality of the situation.
Unsurprisingly, as a fellow member of that committee, I agree with that.
David Davidson touched on that.
I am talking about Scotlands position in general, rather than on this specific issue.
All sorts of reports have been produced.
Fergus Ewing gave the example of those who are on the highest tax rate.
Those matters will have to be given due consideration and deliberation.
We see APD as another barrier to entry into routes.
Those measures will provide stability in the sector during the economic downturn.
The volatile nature of income tax means that it can stagnate over time.
Why does he suggest that we compare well.
Whenever I say that, someone leaps up.
A number of members have spoken about the democratic deficit that the bill would introduce.
Why should all that not be part of the accountability.
As politicians, we cannot turn away from that.
Orkney Islands Council was the only other council that made a detailed submission to us.
There would be a different view then.
That is why the Enterprise, Transport and Lifelong Learning Department is important.
As members know, I am one of the two mathematicians in the Parliament.
However, there can still be improvement in some areas.
That is not for us to decide.
Individual national health service boards have primary responsibility for workforce planning.
Are the Strathclyde results robust Of course they are.
That is true, if that person were claiming the full benefit.
We need look no further than our constituency postbags to find evidence of that.
I do not think that that was agreed.
It is good to encourage young children to find things out and think for themselves.
So, the word proportional is more definite.
We have not, as yet, received anything and we look forward to doing so.
Potentially, it does, but I am not sure that that branding is realised.
Broadly, however, the same operation and processes would be needed.
I am afraid that that reflected a small minded and petty approach.
The consequentials announced in the autumn statement are therefore welcome.
That will be really helpful.
Helping to promote growth is the underlying argument for doing that.
We are trying to explore whether that is right.
Excuse me, I am sorry, but may I make one point.
How would that work in practice.
Although the argument has merit, we must examine the issue more.
Gaelic still flourishes there, as do the descendants of those highlanders.
There will always be a tension between those two objectives.
You raise a mixture of points.
For that, he is due credit.
If the halls close, the guts will be taken out of many communities.
This is an open and transparent Government.
That approach is the basic thrust of all recent policy statements on corporate parenting.
I ask the minister to deal with that in his response.
Recent statistics highlighted the scale of obesity in Scotlands young people.
I realise that I am in a minority in Parliament.
It was clear that they had been chronically underfunded since the beginning.
We face a challenge, which I am bringing forward today.
Some people will want or need more, but others will not.
It will be an important body and place for us to consider things in detail.
We fully recognise the problems.
That is a driver that is outwith our control.
I was pleased to pledge my support to the campaign earlier in the week.
That means that we have ambitious plans for Scotlands food and drinks industries.
Furthermore, there are problems of dissatisfaction with repairs and in dealing with antisocial behaviour.
The bill is a poorly researched piece of work.
That is true only under the interim arrangement.
Any changes that were made in future on the basis of taxes would stick.
Patients deserve high quality treatment under the NHS.
I call Fiona Hyslop, who will be followed by Duncan McNeil.
Do you agree with that assertion.
It does not make it any more accurate.
Just for the clerks, we had better say that it is Professor Boadway, not Broadway.
I will come to that in a moment.
It would say something like although there is an element of funding for meals.
That kind of investment cannot be addressed under the traditional rules.
Of course there is not, because business exists to serve citizens.
You in this Parliament are invited to do so.
We must also bear in mind the fiscal situation.
You would adjust for population.
A third issue is compliance.
Obviously that has implications, unless there is a mechanism to correct it.
Several members, including Rhoda Grant and Rob Gibson, mentioned planning issues.
That is even the case in parts of Britain.
To that extent I am disappointed.
It would be beneficial for Scottish education if the Scottish Parliament had power over immigration.
I ask for quick answers, please.
That is what will drag along demand and boost capacity.
The information is therefore incorrect.
The Scottish Executive has responsibility for trunk roads.
I would rather consolidate them, which seems to make a bit more sense economically.
That takes us back to the nub of the issue.
Hong Kong also has a uniform profit tax and some simple property taxes.
We are engaged in an inquiry that is very much a visioning exercise.
Are you saying to me that that will not be the case.
As other members have also said, we must make schemes understandable.
We have failed to achieve that fully.
However, for the record, I do not agree with its use of remedial.
The impact of that is really quite distressing for very many people.
In the circumstances that are set out in the bill.
We are not sure whether it will maintain the infrastructure investment plan.
The introduction of a local income tax would bring accountability and fairness to local funding.
You say in your submission that we are ranked lowest in Europe.
In other words, for example, VAT should apply to everything.
In England, we have bridleways.
Such service has always been viewed as non party political.
That is why I proposed an amendment to Robert Browns motion.
Does that figure in any of the revenue raising proposals that you have examined.
The reasons for that are complex and multifactoral.
The school has traditionally had a very strong musical ethos.
Members should think back over the past couple of years.
Good parenting is at the heart of a good childhood.
I wanted to have that confirmed.
An obvious example is the policy on higher education tuition fees.
That will be far and away the biggest activity.
You asked what I hope to achieve from this bill.
First, it ensures that such a strategy will exist.
A related issue is that of the costs for independent schools.
Despite the generous settlement, we face financial and demographic challenges.
There are issues concerning whether traditional procurement obtains better value than PPP.
We talk about fiscal flight.
I suggest that if committee members want to probe issues further, they let me know.
That was actually our reason for writing that article.
With taxes increasing, those businesses will be far less keen to take part.
The taxation level would be decided in the Parliament instead of at the local level.
I do not know whether it does, so I cannot comment.
As I said earlier, every party has contributed its ideas to that review.
In other words, that goes to the general principles relating to legal professional privilege.
Some of the analytical skills remain pertinent, but some of the attitudes are not.
It is also a question of jurisdiction.
We considered the issue in relation to the local property tax, too.
That is just an example of something that you might want to consider.
Those included Angus Soft Fruits, those in the fish processing sector and Walkers Shortbread.
What should the Scottish Executive do in relation to the transitional water rates relief scheme.
That is at the heart of the issue.
You do not recognise that things have moved on.
As for PPP, I think that we should support not for profit trust ideas.
In my view, they are unfairly disadvantaged at the moment.
I hope that the committee will reiterate its support for the Campaign for Borders Rail.
You mentioned the timing of the implementation of the provision.
I entirely endorse the members view.
I urge members to support the Liberal Democrat amendment.
Another concern is the level of bureaucracy that is endemic in their business.
That is one of the things that I have to accept.
The first general factor is the systems capacity.
How to optimise that combination is not being explored sufficiently at the moment.
]The council is supposed to meet every quarter.
That must start with our system of public finance.
That could still be provided with the council tax.
We could be brave enough.
Glasgow should remain in the title of the airport.
I remain concerned about the section in the councillors code on planning applications.
It is worth addressing that.
When they make that assessment, they must make the decisions that are required.
Another issue relates to transparency.
Members who fail to abolish it will not be forgiven by the people of Scotland.
I was stunned by that and asked him why.
It would also ensure that the activities of the Executive and others are well scrutinised.
It achieves that by setting strict conditions on site operators when issuing licences and permits.
I am conscious of that.
We need to use the power wisely to create growth.
Our dip is sometimes shallower and sometimes it is sharper.
John Swinney talked about consensus.
The First Minister has indicated his support for the police and local authorities.
Sandra White mentioned Stansted, which I passed through a couple of weeks ago.
That was the thinking behind the councils view.
I have already asked NHS Fife whether it will appoint directly salaried dentists.
Thank you very much for treating me so well.
It was a pretty big change.
I have met the families on two occasions.
It would be useful if you could share those figures with us.
The SNP and, indeed, the Government cannot let that happen.
We discussed the subject ad nauseam.
It is important to emphasise that the Stansted rail link was constructed using public money.
All the speakers from those parties have been extremely light on detail.
That is my Gaelic inheritance.
Our decision on whether we attend is based on the specific agenda of the meeting.
Members know that I always pore over numbers.
Forecasting would mainly be done by the Office for Budget Responsibility.
The UK tax system is regressive overall.
That brings our questions to a conclusion.
The dispute would have to be resolved minister to minister and Government to Government.
It will change over time and be different for each type of tax.
I believe that he thinks that the accountability of local government is important.
Currently, seven hurdles stop charities from being exempt.
It will work to a clear remit and drive forward a focused plan of action.
We now move to wind up speeches.
However, there is never any room for complacency.
One is the longer term opportunity.
The language should not suffer from any lack of respect at individual or corporate level.
There is serious concern about the manner in which the title deeds register works.
Just that the report is excellent.
I hope that the member welcomes that.
It adds massively to the regressive nature of the UK tax system.
Various references have been made to how long it has taken to produce the framework.
Awareness raising will be a priority for the Government.
It is a question of striking the right balance.
I joined the Health Committee as the report was being published.
That is the notion of spreading risk.
If I have misrepresented you, I apologise.
That solution needs to be a long term and sustainable one.
Mr Swinney talked about mechanisms that might be used to assist the delivery of change.
I invite him to declare any relevant interests.
It is not about the current policies and the levels of support that are available.
Alex Neil said Socialism is not about living in cloud cuckoo land.
It continues to damage careers, relationships and lives.
It is not what this Government is bringing forward.
Will you expand on that Would younger or older people get more tax relief.
The constraint on that before had been neutrality.
We have already touched on anti avoidance measures, uncertainty and other issues of that nature.
I want to get back to the radical point.
Glasgow City Council and the BAA stand ready to play their respective roles.
You just need to do some simulation.
I look forward to discussing the issues with the committee.
I am particularly disappointed in the ministers contribution.
Andrew Arbuckle outlined the Liberal Democrat position.
The debate has been going on for quite a while in the Parliament.
There are alternatives for distributing the resources that are raised locally.
You talked about moving away from property based taxation because it is unfair.
Why would we accept any of that.
Do the witnesses agree If so, why.
The charges in Scotland are entirely a policy decision for ministers and the Scottish Parliament.
The teacher and the secretary will pay less.
The present system does not allow for that.
However, I am in confident mood.
We turn to the closing speeches.
Of course, that ministerial habit of assertion is viral.
It might be a good idea to have a rule about that.
You highlight a particular challenge that would be faced because of how duties are imposed.
I do not know where it came from.
That is bad enough, and I am not experiencing any of those difficulties.
I am not sure that it would, under the present tax collection systems.
However, we believe that we are talking about a multimillion pound figure.
As members have no other questions, I thank you for your evidence.
That decision should be made without fear or favour.
Council tax moneys come from the Department for Work and Pensions budget.
It is nice to see the SNP catching up at last.
Is that consequence worth considering.
Her language today has not helped.
Indeed, during the election campaign, the Labour Party admitted that revaluation would have to happen.
There would be no difference in that regard.
I commend the minister on her speech, much of which I agree with.
Has precedent been set whereby a member has progressed another members bill proposal.
The paper is simply for members information.
Similarly, if we could have short and focused answers, that would be helpful.
I am sure that Audit Scotland will do the same.
That is not a recommendation but a statement of fact.
However, that is another matter entirely.
I declare that I am a member of ICAS.
I would have no problem with that.
Employers expect the Government to look to the development of its own workforce.
In addition, there is demand from single homeless people for accommodation.
You will be glad to hear that.
That is not the point that I made at all, convener.
Most of the remainder of local services, including social work, are highly discretionary.
There are supporters of the language in some perhaps unlikely places.
It would have made it easier to cope with the terrible situation that they faced.
There is a substantial difference between tax evasion and tax avoidance.
In most cases, discrimination is morally dubious, if not illegal.
A low carbon society is one where people can heat their homes affordably.
To ask the Scottish Executive what progress it has made in achieving efficiency savings targets.
The second of your three approaches makes sense to me.
It is good to welcome Rita Hale back again.
We were asked to respond to the review.
I emphasise that our bill will not just be about regulation and reductions.
That is the context in which the UK is having to consider its policy options.
I wish to press the minister further.
The process is very collaborative, which is refreshing.
Those remarks were about England.
There is also an issue with mobility.
Investment in training and education is required to achieve that.
The petitioner mentioned Sylvia Jackson.
I accept your point about a root and branch review of the system being difficult.
I think that that is right.
That is exactly what we will do.
It also means that that is not a requirement for yet another plan.
Would you like to make some opening remarks.
Tommy Sheridans amendment refers touneconomic public private partnership deals.
What did Glasgow airport get A car park.
We should acknowledge that children and young people have an interest in the political process.
We have had to amend recent legislation because that issue was not taken into account.
In my constituency, many households with multiple occupants suffered as a result of that.
Federations come in many forms.
It took rather a long time for local authority action plans to be produced.
I have been examining the management of urban car parking.
That is what I mean.
The evidence was hugely helpful in establishing that approach.
Of course, that is inadequate for funding local government services.
I believe that there are three candidates.
The SNP manifesto stated that business rates would be retained at the centre.
As a result, there has been a surge in nationalism in that part of Europe.
In principle, but there would be much more volatility.
That is an important factor in this discussion.
Citizenship should be taught in schools, but for more basic reasons.
You said that there is a lot of uncertainty about your proposal.
I am not convinced by that argument.
We will see where we get to.
I was just saying that.
Perhaps we should ask those questions of the UK Government.
However, you did not do so.
The airport rail link would have a positive impact in dealing with that.
I am trying to give you an answer by looking at what other countries do.
There is the important new constitutional structure of the joint Exchequer committee.
I understand what you have said about the lack of a model.
Would either of you like to make a statement before we proceed to questions.
We could produce arguments both ways.
If that is where they would like to have conversations, they would be very welcome.
Given the pace of change, we need to think about those values a bit more.
That is one area that you would have to be cautious about.
I can support all that he said.
I will do as Pauline McNeill says.
It is also far harder to build houses in national parks.
All credible scientific opinion now supports that position.
I certainly think that one has to pose the question in that way.
As I said, the minister touched on ethnic minorities.
As I have said, we take a practical view.
You have been in Dumfries too long, Ann.
Can you explain it to me, please.
That SNP position is rather poor and disappointing.
Corporation tax is the most stable.
Perhaps I can widen the question to other panel members.
We have the same problem every time that there is a short debate.
You have two minutes to answer.
That is why I would keep the council tax in place.
When permission was granted, the funding was gone, so there was no development.
I thank the committee clerks, who have ensured that events have progressed smoothly.
I do not think that all the lessons from that experience have been learned.
I address my first question to the Secretary of State for Scotland.
What did your first point relate to.
All those things must be taken into consideration.
We are ensuring that that work is supported with significant resources.
Many factors lead to immobility of labour.
I am surprised that the views he expresses come from a Liberal Democrat.
Neither one is more onerous than the other.
Addressing those kinds of issues will help children to learn.
There have been major changes in ownership patterns in the salmon industry over the years.
I apologise to those members whom I was not able to call.
I am sure that the other witnesses will add their views to this.
That is Mr Sheridans great gamble.
Let us sort out the capitation arrangements.
There is a precedent in the Welsh Assembly having joint commencement of its bill.
I congratulate my colleague Shona Robison on securing an important debate in the Parliament.
There is another interesting session to come.
The local authority analogy is interesting.
We are happy to update the committee on the details.
We are determined to participate in the process of working towards a low carbon Scotland.
What was the thinking in making the bill slightly different from the UK legislation.
Obesity is a huge challenge.
As Brian Adam hinted, a wider basket of taxes is required to do that.
Thank you for that introduction, Jimmy.
That is on the record.
That is based on the evidence of the rate of growth of the two variables.
I will touch on a couple of wider aspects of the agenda.
In Scotland, local authorities are generally responsible for regulating odour emissions from commercial premises.
I thank the witnesses very much for their time and their evidence.
There could be documents on fee charging or something ancillary to what is going on.
This is an annual event in the Scottish Parliament.
Bristow Muldoon and other Labour members outlined the Labour Partys position.
In that case, the set up was formal.
If members direct questions to a particular panel member, that will be helpful.
I am not sure that that approach would necessarily break the link entirely.
One way is to raise it yourself, as you indicated.
Nanette Milne asked how we will ensure compliance.
That particularly affects women, who are underrepresented in the labour market.
I am afraid that I am still going on about fiscal drag, convener.
John, I think that your phone has gone off.
However, the Government cannot protect the UK alone.
Clearly, we want the economy to be dynamic.
We must be thankful that that has happened.
That creates an obvious tax loss to the taxing authority.
That means that we can develop further initiatives.
Thats what the chancellor has.
The bill may well exacerbate it, but it will not create it ab initio.
Which Prime Minister abolished the poll tax.
The Labour Government successfully secured transitional funding, from which we are still benefiting.
It is a fantastic experience for disabled people.
Two myths have been propagated by the minister in the one response.
I have two points to make.
I will not entirely duck your request for me to express my views.
Stewart Stevensons point was interesting.
However, I am happy to concede it to him.
That was in a prominent hospital in the city.
Will Mr Peacock give way.
When we are there, we girls just want to have fun with our horses.
Stop and search is working in that respect, and we are looking at a review.
Mike Rumbles talked about my local council area.
It varies too, which you can see if you look at various flags.
It is nothing more difficult than that.
I understand that village halls in the Angus area have benefited under that programme.
We encourage GPs into the salaried service and will continue to do so.
A candidate will be elected if an overall majority is obtained.
It is a fair scenario and it does occur.
On investment, look at Ireland and other places.
It simply should not be happening, and we are continuing to press the matter.
We are told that the respect agenda is still in place.
They are the people whom we want to keep in our country.
It makes you wonder just who privatisation is for.
Another significant issue is the changing demography of Scotland.
Of an interpretation of past empirical evidence.
At a time of high drilling costs, anything that adds to costs is unattractive.
Indeed, they will not react until they want to kill you.
There is a transitional problem and a long term issue.
We have to stand by our children.
Maybe I have taken it out of context.
We did so because of the industrys importance to the economy and employment in Scotland.
Our indigenous food products are important to us.
How can we achieve that If I knew that, I would be worth a fortune.
Throughout the evidence that we have heard, the term prudential rules has been used frequently.
Tonight I speak as an unrepentant Edinburgh patriot.
There is an awful lot in the Labour amendment with which we would agree.
Scotland would take the fiscal risks of revenues falling short, without having the policy levers.
I invite those members who have yet to leave the chamber to do so now.
I simply observe that there are many different ways of making forecasts.
All those points indicate the scale of our problems.
Will you define what you mean by a reformed council tax.
I agree with Des McNultys point.
Do you have anything else to add before we conclude this evidence session.
We add to the problems by cutting Scottish spending.
Today, we are engaging in the debate.
The attempt is to find a system that, over time, will be neutral.
The language has given an impression that we did not intend it to give.
That is not the way to go about things.
That was my starting point.
However, there are many success stories and there can be many more.
Unfortunately, Mr Kerr seems unable to persuade many of his colleagues to do the same.
We move to the open debate.
They will consider light rail as well as heavy rail options.
So, the Scottish Parliament can hold HMRC to account.
Regression analysis still requires judgment.
I pay tribute to Jim Hume for securing the debate.
I am sorry, but I do not have time to go over the argument.
Today, the first meeting of the convention takes place in Brussels.
There are plenty of challenges.
As far as enterprise zones are concerned, we are looking carefully at the matter.
Only two things will save Gaelic  education and broadcasting.
That is the challenge that the policy presents.
No, I will not give way, as I am about to finish.
Thank you very much, Professor Holtham.
We would need more time and resources to carry out more detailed studies.
There are other things that we need to do.
The point is that there is a property element in the bill.
I thought that that was it.
If the financing were stripped out by itself, it would be higher.
Who is suffering in all this.
It would permit a genuine unhypothecated block grant.
 That is another complexity of the levy.
However, we are looking carefully at that.
For example, some of the money that was raised could be spent.
That situation is totally unsustainable.
Thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to appear before the committee.
However, their views are not always taken into consideration.
It will only be in practice that we see the level of demand.
We were ahead of her.
The committee has looked closely at how to combat tax avoidance.
I assumed that you had some sort of photophobia, so I did not comment.
What really concerns me about the proposals is the economic impact that they would have.
Should income tax stay in.
The second issue is the circumstances in which they are deployed.
We must avoid involvement in that narrow debate.
Then we would have the scope to introduce different experiences of learning in schools.
We do not want people to object to our industry.
We can discuss that dynamic with Audit Scotland.
However, those areas have middle and low deprivation rates, respectively.
The industry is complaining about the legislative framework.
I ask the minister to re examine which authorities come under the scheme.
Let me check that I have got your reference correct.
You said that you thought that you were here to scrutinise that proposal.
Changes in European governance affect every person in Scotland.
That was not a particularly profound or significant contribution.
must be aware of the risks.
I wish CHAS well in that.
His tax proposals would increase the burden on below average earners in Scotland.
Can you put a timescale on that How much delay is already in the system.
May we hear what the witness says.
Everything would depend on how much the rates were changed by.
The reviews that have taken place have produced only minor shifts.
This has been a major, robust inquiry and we have travelled a long road.
Every other member state in Europe talks to its citizens about the future of Europe.
Clearly, we will be discussing that approach with the Scottish Government, too.
Those forecasts were described by Professor Heady to the committee as brave.
The reason for that is twofold.
Unfortunately, I left that committee before its inquiry could be completed.
I thank Lord James Douglas Hamilton for raising such an important issue.
That was a statement of fact, not a recommendation.
You are talking about a very small number of people.
I am not aware of any substantial academic evidence in support of the proposition.
I am very disappointed that we have not got that.
However, they agree that the prospect of lower business taxes is attractive.
There is some potential for problems if it is not dealt with correctly.
We as a Government are keen to ensure that that reform occurs.
followed by	Executive Debate  Volunteering.
The situation is reversed in greater Glasgow.
At least our position is consistent.
That is an important part of the process.
The joint commencement process would kick in only when we have reached agreement.
The written and oral evidence has been helpful and informative.
Will she tell us why she has changed her mind.
Collating the information that I requested is a simple task.
I also argue that there are risks in staying with the current system.
That is a really strange question.
I commend the Executive for its proposals to create a commissioner for human rights.
Fundamentally, any tax system must deal effectively and comprehensively with any dangers of tax avoidance.
The themes are not all about skills.
That is an interesting and provocative question.
The levy in its current form is probably dead in the water.
I will start off with a simple question.
We have the example of the Edinburgh agreement, which points to that.
There has to be a beginning and end to that process.
I commend the forward thinking in the infrastructure investment plan.
We need to find new ways to make that happen.
If you wish, convener, I could give examples of other areas, such as international obligations.
There is now a much more complex set of relationships.
There will be discussion between the two Governments to find out what that means.
Once we have received further clarification from the Executive, we can progress the petition.
Within ethnic minorities, there are very diverse groups.
We have time for two quick points, although I am aware of the time.
That is why the fear of crime is down.
Ken Macintosh, Neil Findlay and others reasonably made that point.
There are important implications for Scotland.
There is undoubtedly a level of taxation at which people would move.
Without Gaelic language, culture and tradition, Scotland would be a poorer place.
The responses have almost been analysed.
The lack of research showing the economic impact of the proposed tax is alarming.
Excluding unearned income from the tax base would reduce the incentive for such avoidance behaviour.
I suspend the meeting to allow a changeover of witnesses.
Obviously, there will be lessons to learn from that.
In the few minutes still available to me, I shall give them some information.
There are many difficulties with the amounts.
It is a job skills training programme.
That estate needs to be updated and cared for.
Secondary level teachers must give a good example to their pupils.
That is why we will do all we can to avoid council tax increases.
How one approaches that sort of split needs to be addressed.
In some of those countries, the sub national Governments are local authorities.
That is just how things are arranged in practice.
I hope that that will be emphasised as Gaelic language plans develop.
I am not saying that the present system is perfect.
It is simply not possible.
As has been said, the bill has the unanimous backing of the Standards Committees members.
I do not think that we have a clear target date to have that agreed.
I welcome the delivering choice programme and wish it every success.
]The third issue was fiscal flight.
Most councils in Scotland contributed to that paper.
Like our MSP colleagues, local councillors are elected.
I will touch on three aspects of the challenge.
That can be the case even just within the health and social care arena.
However, I certainly expect there to be a significant return on the investment.
Perhaps David Glen can answer my question.
If food is locally grown, children understand better how their food appears.
There would have to be an acceptance of the rough as well as the smooth.
At the moment we export graduates because we do not offer sufficient economic opportunities.
Now you seem to be saying something different.
If you remember, we said at the outset that detailed proposals had to be made.
Hence, electors could make a much more meaningful choice at election time.
We are all liberals now.
It is no longer enough that the north east is an excellent place to live.
Legislation is not a magic bullet.
Is that, broadly speaking, correct.
I thank the First Minister for his answer and associate myself with his comments.
The same thread runs right through the SNPs position.
Those who earn less should pay less.
Progress is slow, but we are firm believers in the process.
The issue is that we need to begin to get the work done.
Addressing that issue was clearly part of the review committees remit.
The European Committee believes that the process of engaging with our citizens is a priority.
Accountability has always been an issue in the integration of health and social care.
The same opportunity exists whatever Parliament we are looking at.
Can you expand on what you mean by that.
We have talked about download speeds and that type of stuff.
I will then open up the meeting to questions from committee members.
Will you summarise COSLAs proposals for reform of the local government capital finance system.
My experience in local government was that prudential borrowing works well.
What would that limit be We did not consider that issue.
Of course we should consider evidence, and that is what we will do.
The council tax can be redesigned to be fairer and more representative.
We have heard arguments about ability to pay.
followed by	Ministerial Statement  Approach to the Strategic Spending Review.
Of course, there will be difficulties with and, no doubt, disagreements about the proposed changes.
The committee also considered second homes.
A functioning balance has to be identified.
People do want us to ask about the impact of welfare reform.
The paper did not do that.
The bill is just one part of a journey.
At that time, there was adoption and there was fostering.
Scotland now has a higher unemployment rate than the rest of the UK.
I often think about comparisons between Glasgow and Edinburgh.
I am pleased that you have been able to clarify that.
Professor Heald, you have said that we ought to be cautious about assignment.
Any major change to local government financing that changes the whole area will increase turbulence.
That applies to everything that we do.
I do not have an answer to Winnie Ewings question on special circumstances.
Can you please reconcile the difference between those two estimates.
We are both curmudgeonly old devils.
I will take a secondary school structural point as an example.
I understand what you are getting at.
I thank you all for coming along, and for your submissions.
What are the lessons from Canada.
The forthcoming spending review will be critical in the successful delivery of the target.
The Education Committee debated the question of the status of the Gaelic language exhaustively.
I am proud to be a member of this committee.
On this occasion, we have the benefit of operating jointly with the British security forces.
I will correct something, if I may.
Within three year periods, authorities will be able to build in their own stability.
In East Ayrshire, the school meals pilot project has worked well.
We can improve local tax.
I apologise if I gave that impression.
The administration must be radically improved.
Brian Adam is worried that it is too late.
I have a question about the process of the review or reform.
Local income tax has been touched on.
Indeed, London, too, has a version of it.
Our submission concentrates on three main options.
That is the end of the argument on that one, as I agree with you.
Scotland is different, in that its airports are not full.
The Highlands and Islands face a disadvantage in getting businesses to recruit apprentices.
Not only that, but we go into vital fishing talks this week.
We have not received a response.
I still fail to see the relevance of this to the Scotland Bill.
As Irene McGugan said, we would like responses on key issues that the committee identified.
Who will be expected to meet those capital costs.
In one sense, that is another cliché.
We move on to our second panel of witnesses.
I open up the meeting for questions.
Clearly, politicians have different views and it is their views that count.
We heard today about agricultural tax.
Good morning, Rachel, and welcome to the committee.
We see that as a substantial increase in accountability for the Scottish Government.
I am sure that we will hear about those concerns during the debate.
The results of many of them are not transparent.
We recognised the approach but decided that it was not an appropriate way forward.
I am deeply suspicious of arguments about assignment, because they confuse the issue.
We will not improve the oral health of our population unless we eradicate poverty.
A number of concepts are at play.
You have to look at the base.
That is what the dentists have asked us to do, and we have delivered it.
Karen Whitefield talked about the exclusion rate of young people who are in care.
I am aware of that development.
It has a mixture of nation states and cross regional alliances.
It is interesting to note that the MOD prescribes a certain colour.
Do members agree to that.
The bills legal competency has not been questioned.
Last year, the committee undertook an intensive study of that issue over several months.
That is something that we need to learn from and avoid.
In this case, the approved scheme is administered by Royal and Sun Alliance in Liverpool.
The local councils, the SPTE, Glasgow airport and Railtrack cannot do the job by themselves.
How shameful that, today, we have Labour MSPs who defend the Tory council tax.
We know how important food and the environment are.
We move straight to the next witness.
Distribution would be determined purely by a grant aided expenditure settlement and arguments about that.
I wonder where that comes from.
What was the previous gateway review grading.
That was the only reason for the council tax being increased.
I cannot produce a simple response to it.
That is an important underpinning for the bill.
We need to drive improvements.
Professor Heald, can you say anything more about how we achieve more transparency.
We have been proofing our objectives.
Perhaps unlike Iain Gray, I believe that due process is important.
You have been before the committee previously, so you know the drill.
It also helps to establish trust between developed and developing nations.
I think that we are close to completion.
I congratulate Shona Baird on bringing the subject to the Parliament to debate.
Welsh is in a far stronger position than Gaelic, as are Catalan and Basque.
The formula was unproblematic at first, but it has been completely discredited since reorganisation.
If the reason for the difference is as she describes, that is welcome news.
We are proud of that, but it is not our only inheritance.
The problem comes down to legal competency.
I thank you for coming.
There is a false comfort that income is secured for the comprehensive spending review period.
Will Michael Russell repeat what he has just said.
It is fine for customers to move around and make a noise during the film.
Let us move on to short term borrowing.
We need to find ways of reflecting that change in schools and resourcing it.
There is no doubt that much more can be done in that area.
That is one of the mysteries.
No, I do not, but I would have heard directly from the professional group concerned.
I am sorry, Mr Rumbles.
I am sure that other members can talk about similar examples from their constituencies.
Perhaps the committee will want to pursue that in due course.
Ensuring that that cost is driven down is the key to overall efficiency.
Economists have spent a lot of time thinking about and trying to measure that.
I am a bit puzzled by the members reference to a local income tax.
I appreciate that, but they will fall apart even more.
Thank you very much for inviting me here.
We have to consider them in total.
Now, the business rate will be kept centrally.
We will have a short natural break for members who require it.
A number of issues are involved.
One of the disadvantages is that everything has already been said.
The neutral position is potentially inherently deflationary, because of the fiscal drag point.
Different ways of collecting the charges could achieve our objective.
I presume that you agree that there is such a need.
Andrew Welsh knows that the problem is about more than just water charges.
I cannot make a comparison.
We have a tax varying power, although some people are reluctant to use it.
I agree with the member about compliance.
Some people have suggested that Glasgow airport should be renamed the west of Scotland airport.
The industry knows that we mean business on that.
Britains leading epidemiologist wants a public inquiry now.
The figures for Ireland, following its immersion strategy, are even more dramatic.
Do you think that you have answered, in detail, all the questions that it posed.
Therefore, on those three counts, we suggest that the accountability arguments against the bill fall.
Those included living within environmental limits and achieving a sustainable economy.
Those settlements have allowed councils to develop longer term and, in particular, strategic planning.
It is not as important as you might think.
I take it that the minister does not need to sum up.
We do not know how elastic or inelastic the position is.
The problem is much more striking for Wales, although it applies here too.
That aside, your basic point is correct.
That is the nature of our parliamentary democracy and I take no issue with it.
That is clear and specific.
We would then need to have legislation in both jurisdictions.
It is, of course, not just the previous Scotland Bill Committee that thought that.
The agricultural community should take heed.
We hope that careers Scotland will do that.
Perhaps I should end on that point.
Growth is different from speculative booms and busts, which drive our property market.
I see no reason to have a UK select team in the Olympics.
He knows that I have a deal of sympathy with his position.
I ask the Scottish Executive to commit itself to continuing and extending the scheme.
We have received apologies this morning from Malcolm Chisholm MSP.
We must not forget that we built the worlds first big rail network.
I am saying that we could tailor our policies towards what we need.
The fact that something is difficult does not mean that we should not do it.
In putting it together, we took expert advice from IT colleagues in the Scottish Government.
To a certain extent, it goes with the complexity of the tax system.
Thank you very much for inviting me along.
Work on the review of the distribution formula is under way jointly with COSLA.
Thank you for coming along.
They are not good enough at that.
A number of points have been made recently about how best to define poverty.
That is why it is impossible to generalise.
None of the witnesses suggested such a proposal.
All levels of government must consider policies to support families.
Barriers are being put in to stop vehicles going on to the network.
The UK Government has set out our methodology.
It is a floor and not a ceiling.
You are a lawyer, are you not, Mrs Ewing.
I throw that point on the table.
More than half of the projects that are listed have no clear funding mechanism attached.
Members have also referred to the interaction between wild and farmed fish.
Healing and collegiate behaviour is best, but it will not always work.
Scotland needs a competitive advantage.
If more people pay income tax, we get more revenue.
There is undoubtedly a commitment to partnership working.
The third issue that I will emphasise relates to the productivity and skills challenge.
Like all things, the devil is in the detail.
We spent money on lighting, legal expenses and other aspects.
The smart, successful Scotland sought by the Executive cannot be achieved without tackling gender inequalities.
We are not starting from scratch or with a blank sheet of paper.
As has been said, we want to avoid taking some children into care.
As for whether we should trust what people say now, my answer would be no.
I have a point on which I would like clarification.
People should pay taxes in accordance with their ability to do so.
If we have the processes right, it just happens.
That further complicates the impact that you might get from such changes.
I have a question on taxation, for Moira Kelly.
The first vote is for members who wish to support Mr MacAskill.
Even though there was a legal challenge, payments continued to be made.
I am confident that progress will be made before too long.
What is your perspective on the matter.
That is also an issue here in this country.
As you know, we are involved in the on going Government review of the issue.
It continued Risk assessments placed too much emphasis on how well parents cooperated with staff.
Yes, but it did not automatically feed through.
That is the case in Scotland.
It is all that is available.
I understand what he is saying, but I do not agree.
Other ways of making a radical difference should be considered.
That shift has been driven by both environmental and economic factors.
The tax system interacts with various other systems, in particular the welfare benefits system.
I join colleagues in congratulating Andrew Arbuckle on securing the debate.
HMRC has one of the most complicated tax systems.
That is clearly not the case.
The committees idea is for the discussion to expand outwards from that question.
And if the Scottish Government took things over, we could not do any worse.
I want to thank the clerks for another excellent piece of work.
It is not a case of marketing a particular agenda or anything.
We have to open up issues such as that and arrive at clear definitions.
The question was how we can reconcile the different strands of Scottish education.
That will be for us to sort out.
Shifting the balance of care will assist us in achieving that objective.
I think that I have answered that question consistently plenty of times.
We need to take education to the student or the apprentice.
The secretary of state now has more resources available than she initially thought.
The second challenge is what I call the knowledge life cycle revolution.
The overall capacity to borrow to meet short term needs appears to be inadequate.
 Yes, but clinging on by our fingertips would be my estimation of the situation.
As you go through the spending period, there will probably be deviations.
I suggest that the proposal is still an important one.
That might be one area in which you could expect to legislate in due course.
No, it is not channelled to the Exchequer in London.
However, local income tax should not be ruled out without detailed consideration.
First, I would again be cautious about extrapolating from a particular historical experience.
Pension schemes are not terribly robust at the moment.
In our view, they would be negative.
We will certainly play our part in taking forward that timetable.
I am talking about financial accountability.
On the unitary rule, the optimal currency area applies.
The first petition on the paper is from Alex and Margaret Dekker.
I will touch finally on council tax benefit and housing benefit.
I include in that Her Majestys Treasury and the Executive, to an extent.
I told Johann Lamont that in May.
I do not think that it is based on tax.
Council tax takes no account of ability to pay.
Scotland has fewer very high tax payers and more low tax payers.
That is just a practice that is in common currency.
Thank you for inviting me.
That was pointed out by Mr Arbuckle.
I am trying to help the member out with his time allocation.
Does the Deputy First Minister expect it to help Scottish business during the recession.
I could exhibit my autonomy by not taking much notice of you.
We have been developing our NPDO approach with our co sponsors, Partnerships UK.
We want there to be consensus as we move forward in this area.
It would not give any powers over income distribution or anything like that.
I thank them for that.
The first of them relates to tighter biomass sustainability criteria.
Officially, they have four bike spaces on board  two in each of two carriages.
However, no real timescale is placed on those.
A local income tax would also be cheaper to collect.
However, there is a more fundamental inconsistency.
It is a tax on hard working families.
That is outside our remit.
Amalgamating everything into a demand profile is hard to do, as we found out.
I tried to intervene earlier on the subject.
They take forward several tried and tested initiatives and build on precedents in the marketplace.
I am sure that we will have a valuable discussion.
The Nordic model means most within the Nordic countries.
That tells me that the balance is right.
Why did you not give those figures.
Often, we use common terminology, but common terminology masks things that have moved quickly.
Change and reform were therefore necessary.
Once the Westminster Government had voted the money it would be yours.
I want to clarify what Jeremy Peat said.
Would equalisation have an impact on the dialogue between councils and businesses.
Generally, the UK does not have the simplest form of calculating the tax.
It is hugely disappointing to have failed to meet the first emissions target.
I think that I followed that.
I have a lot to say.
It would be wise to believe neither of them.
The minister will take questions on the issues that have been raised in his statement.
There are significant long term financial commitments through contracts.
I am afraid that it is.
There are countries in which that has been a problem.
We want people to carry on as normal.
However, they undermined their contention by omitting to include that in the bill.
So a simplified tax system does you all out of jobs.
That is very good news for the young people of that area.
I am pleased to hear that he is doing his bit.
That came through in the previous session.
A number of members highlighted the demographic challenge.
The first item of business is time for reflection.
Ministers are clearly tied in.
There are jobs that men do and jobs that women do.
I could go into detail about the changes to the system that we would like.
The challenge is to ensure that we turn it into practical reality.
That is not on the agenda.
One or two interesting comments have been made.
Mr Macintosh, is there something that you require me to do as Presiding Officer.
This is a dynamic area of policy.
That is what we must focus on.
The current Government has not imposed that condition, which Calman did not recommend.
Other assistance can be given to GPs who find themselves in difficulties.
There is clearly cause for concern.
Those costs were highlighted recently.
Significant support would then be needed to enable a quality project to be produced.
We look forward to the results.
That comes simultaneously with the threat to increase the number of council tax bands.
I suspect that that construction project was over budget as well.
The families of those who died want a public inquiry now.
Flights are losing passengers because of the inaction of this Government and past Governments.
Does either of you want to make any final points.
Conservative members would not make such a silly mistake.
I can give you an example of how bureaucratic and difficult the system is.
I will let colleagues in in a minute or so.
The situation could not be more serious.
Yes, but can we have a question, Ms Eadie.
Finally, our analysis demonstrates that the borrowing provisions in the bill are inadequate.
Those people are often highly mobile.
I think that you call it fiscal flight in your paper.
It is about redistribution of income.
First, she says that we are behind the game.
Specific hacking tools in the attacks were developed by the US National Security Agency.
I will give two examples.
I have two points on the overall climate change approach.
We in this chamber are completely unrepresentative of Scotland in relation to income.
Nevertheless, that is good for the Scottish industry at the top end.
Every member in the chamber will pay more.
Interestingly, we always look at things in terms of what is happening in the UK.
I am grateful to the business team for giving me the opportunity.
It took a bit of work to get that in place.
It is now the time for action.
Authorities are tackling the same problem, but in different ways.
We value the degree of buoyancy in council tax.
However, there are myriad articles on the issue.
Tommy Sheridan has just used the word fairness.
So how do we improve the basket of taxes.
In fact, we would expect the same thing to happen under Scottish tax arrangements.
For example, we want to tackle the illegal depositing of waste.
If it is brief and on this issue, because time is running out.
Like smoking, regressive taxation kills.
First, there has been considerable misunderstanding, if not misrepresentation, of our report.
We give our absolute and unqualified support to the principles of the bill.
Will you accept a vote of the Scottish Parliament.
I particularly note the one that has just been completed in the Republic of Ireland.
We should consider the expenditure side and the financial commitments that local government faces.
Finally, I turn to Mr Humes amendment.
Were you asking whether there were other ways of targeting resources.
It is important that we have straight answers to straight questions.
There is also the budget, so the committee will have its work cut out.
Those are crucial powers that are not available at Westminster.
When employers talk about the skills gap, they are often talking about soft skills.
I thank Ian Jenkins for raising that issue.
However, the rest of us can have a serious debate, as is right.
One has to look carefully at the definition of taxpayers.
I am obliged to Mr Gallie for reminding me of that fact.
I certainly do not disregard the elections this May.
The regime would therefore not be a source of unpredictability in local expenditure.
Data is the target, and businesses and citizens have lots of it.
I want to build on a point that Mr Swinney made.
No one can argue with that ambition.
In response to Richard Baker, you mentioned further devolution to local government and communities.
If you would, that would be much appreciated, Mr Evans.
Just make a good forecast and a good case.
The closer that authorities got to Z, the more they spent.
However, the elephant in the room is growth in the economy.
I have a couple of comments to make, one of which is on penalties.
It is a penal tax and not fair.
We frankly and freely acknowledge that.
If that could be brought into the audit, that would be helpful.
However, I am pleased to close on behalf of the Scottish National Party.
We must turn our attention to that matter.
They could be state or commercially sponsored spies trying to grab classified papers.
That is the breakdown of the total number.
We pray for good governors.
The national park label is probably the best known countryside protection designation in the world.
If we are the United Kingdom, that is where our parochial nature applies.
I have a more general question.
I would also appreciate brief answers.
The value of property aspect is one indication of that.
Let us be open about it.
Those applicants are all potential dentists of the future.
I wish you a safe journey home.
We should have proper consultation with local government, so that services can be provided properly.
I thought that the threshold for assistance was a bit higher.
Our adviser wishes to ask a question.
I share some of the frustrations that members have amplified.
I am not making allegations.
I am afraid that we are at cross purposes.
Before I do anything else, I formally welcome Professor Gavin McEwen to the meeting.
The Steel commission informed the debate that we had in the Calman commission.
I hope that you took them in the best possible manner.
I do not argue that.
People want more opportunity to fly out of the west of Scotland from Glasgow airport.
Glasgow airport is suffering because it does not have that link.
I am glad to support what has been said.
That funding will be spent in accordance with the agreed local housing and homelessness strategies.
They like the current UK lens.
However, participation is severely segregated by gender.
In the meantime, I fully support revaluing properties and rebanding council tax.
The numbers are broadly the same.
We need to persuade dentists to remain within the NHS.
I am concerned that many children are still left behind in schools in Scotland.
I will start by asking a couple of simple questions.
It is nice to see you, Mr Ewing.
I know that, Mr Swinney.
Solutions need to be different, because councils are different organisations.
I have a quick question about business rates.
I support the Highland lead agency model to integrate home carers into the NHS.
I am not sure if I addressed how they should stop doing so.
People in Callander have nowhere to ride.
No, but let me put this in context.
However, we must ensure that those who do come into care get a better experience.
Going there was a great highlight for the Education Committee.
Once again, people could be proud of truly autonomous local government that meets their needs.
Some would argue that the proportion is irrelevant.
I will first address the aim of tackling poverty.
You are right to say that the previous financial memoranda included items for IT development.
Those are slightly coming back at us, because they are so complicated.
Did you not get a chance to read the material.
We hope that the two studies will dovetail comfortably together.
Five political parties oppose it.
If we are addressing efficiencies in the system, they must be considered across the piece.
We need to ensure that the skills are available.
Obviously that needs to be looked into, but the principle stands.
Of course, tackling deprivation costs money.
I would rather deal with things by having more regular revaluations.
Scotland is attracting a huge amount of interest in international terms.
That is very flattering, but we cannot help who uses our evidence.
Citizens Advice Scotland does not have a principled position for or against means testing.
Let me give an illustrative example.
Let me explain our position.
I am pleased to speak to the amendment in my name.
There are early indications that the school is performing extremely well.
I welcome Jim Wallaces constructive response on that.
We need to ensure that Scotland has a robust climate change policy.
That is the fundamental point that I was trying to put across.
Maybe I could finish the question.
There is a move towards uniformity in postal services in the European Union.
I doubt whether it is on that list.
I remember well the debate on housing stock transfer in Glasgow.
That is a process in which he should be engaged.
It is a big issue.
That demonstrates something, although I am not sure what.
We will consider that point carefully.
They may also go some way towards dispelling public cynicism about politicians.
As a pensions expert, you must be familiar with that paper.
I shall highlight some of the points in it.
My comment would be the same on the other examples that you gave.
Will Fergus Ewing give way.
I am sure that it would make interesting bedtime reading.
There are two different things, both of which are important to do.
You are stopping me putting forward my case.
I am happy to take part in this debate about the development of Gaelic.
It says Scrap the council tax campaign receives massive support.
We continue to take evidence on the Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Bill.
I thank the member for her clarification, but my point holds good.
The bill represents the culmination of a nine month inquiry.
I am pleased that some of the extra funding is linked to requirements providing prevention.
I also welcome Cathy Jamiesons new found enthusiasm for the issue.
It really is the other way round.
Do members agreeMembers indicated agreement.
I have no reason to suppose that it will.
Will high speed rail cause problems that will have to be addressed through APD.
It is awkward if you have no borrowing, but the UK has borrowing.
That is what is important.
A number of issues have been missing from the debate.
I concur with the view that international students are an enormous benefit to Scotland.
The committee took evidence yesterday.
I am still searching for something to be good at.
I also presume that that will be the case for the third sector, too.
We see that happening all the time.
Is your aim to underline the continuing implications of that.
So there is no sign of the winning conditions.
Finally, I will discuss a point that is given insufficient attention.
Community consciousness would be transformed as a consequence.
Mr Carson talked about the four different aims.
The right of the child to speak for herself must also be clear.
I have no view at the moment.
I mentioned before that legal professional privilege was a sort of constitutional thing.
In addition, a process of concurrent planning is being trialled in London.
I am happy to pick up themes from the committees discussion paper.
One is measuring and taxing, and I understand that bit.
The question of where the line is drawn is personal.
Ministers cannot pretend that the problem has nothing to do with them.
I declare an interest  I am a director of Motherwell Football Club.
There is a question of how far we go.
I apologise for shaking my head at Moira Kelly.
Do members have any other points.
Overall, the system needs to be supported by sustained and sufficient revenue funding.
As I said, we did not put a figure on capital borrowing.
It is a complex issue.
I wish him a speedy recovery.
You said that we all have an interest in the costs.
In that sense, it is among the greater beneficiaries of the grant system.
Which ones do you want us to cut, whereas it should take a different approach.
The Scottish Conservatives are justifiably proud of our record on supporting Gaelic.
What about the Lib Dems George Lyon hasnae listened.
People might do everything possible to ensure that they do not have an income.
The Executives action plan addresses the points that are raised in the report.
Aggregates are very important in so much as they are used in everyday life.
I agree with Fiona Hyslop and Christine May about the need for early intervention.
The answer to the last part of Bill Butlers question is yes.
On the whole, those countries are wealthier than us per capita.
The facilities offered to passengers were expanded and improved.
Congestion charging or any other form of charge may change peoples behaviour.
There is no pony trekking there now.
We have already participated in four future of Europe debates.
I do not think that it is a very good tax.
It is interwoven into European law and the European convention on human rights.
That is a very honest answer.
They are not valued in the real world.
Mary Scanlon refers to the use of independent care home beds.
However, it is easy to meet unambitious targets.
The two must go hand in hand.
You have not explained how it would work.
I suggest that those targets are unachievable.
I will take the last question first because it is probably the most pertinent.
I could go through a legion of points.
Christine Grahames point about supermarkets was very valid.
We could have had a project that did not need that level of Government support.
Finally, under capital finance, the introduction of three year figures is also welcome.
Okay, comrades, we will move on.
Thank you for submitting the joint update note, which is helpful.
Dumfries and Galloway has several active freshwater fish and shellfish farms.
Yes, we have to ask such questions.
I believe that that applies to many departments in local government.
The benefits of local food are increasingly apparent  many members have already spoken of them.
They also think that PE might mess their hairdos and so forth.
It would be good to hear some views on that.
I am not arguing with that.
He mentioned the issue in his most recent speech in Parliament.
Will the Executive take any steps to address that.
You said that you have been listening and that you promised to make the changes.
As with any system of taxation, some people would lose out under the service tax.
Our Cabinet discusses issues of importance to the people of Scotland.
Both aspects are equally important.
Structured planning and managed change.
The calculation is not made simply on a per capita basis.
You could do a range of things, all of which I think would be helpful.
That is rather insulting to the secretary of state.
The bill is very short.
There are arguments for keeping some kind of taxation on housing.
Whitehall makes its budget decisions at the margins.
I want to comment on historical evidence and Northern Ireland corporation tax.
That includes changes to the competence of the Parliament and ministers.
As others have said, the process is a bit challenging.
We have already started the process to deliver on the classroom agenda.
Out of principle, I employed PWC to fight our case.
Who Cares Scotland provides advocacy across Scotland.
East Ayrshire Council should be congratulated on that remarkable achievement.
Iimi says it is still arguable whether decentralisation stimulates economic growth.
There has been voluntary early retirement, which we agree is necessary.
The amount would be linked historically to what we get at the moment.
We have received apologies from James Kelly.
That was not the fault of the Conservative Government.
I feel strongly about that issue, which we could go on about.
Professor Arthur Midwinter is professor of politics at Strathclyde University.
We would need to look at capital finance in the longer term.
Sustaining that point would not be reasonable.
Why will he not release the information to the committee when asked to do so.
I have nearly been knocked off my chair.
There are two potential streams.
We should look at the Executives commitment to equal pay.
Cabinet secretary, I was encouraged by your comments on penalties, with which I agree.
I want to pick up on another point to do with capital borrowing.
All that happened over a very long period of time.
The clerks will have gone through the drill with you.
We should be testing the ground.
The appointment of a commissioner would bring that independent element into the complaints procedure.
You are actually alleging that the judiciary are rubber stamping bad practice by lawyers.
Liberal Democrats are absolutely behind a British Olympic team.
Job creation is fairly central to any anti poverty strategy.
Bristow Muldoon has had his say.
Do you mean in terms of the specific point that Mr Don has just made.
That is about a sensitivity to a different legal framework and environment.
Bristow Muldoon talks about average workers.
He said that that is reported by managers in the public sector and local authorities.
Our intention was that free milk should be provided.
I have to vote for resources.
I will dig into that a little further.
PGI status for Scotch would not be legally competent and indeed would dilute existing protection.
In general, the cabinet secretary has got the balance right and I commend her proposals.
It sounds like she has the ideal man for Conservative party material.
Scottish Water would have to expand its existing billing system rather than start from scratch.
We must increase the dental workforce.
The criterion is common sense.
We believe that it is.
The SNP did not make them.
We want to engage them in the debate.
When local authority elected members set council tax they keep that in mind.
I remind everybody to turn off mobile phones and other electronic devices.
They are tired of a lack of action and of not being listened to.
I support the amendments in the name of John Farquhar Munro.
It has been an extremely positive thing for Aberdeen.
John Wilson will go next.
One concerns process and one concerns substance.
We cannot go into too many details at the moment.
I have already covered the Scottish tax tribunals item.
He is in grave danger of making Alex Neil look statesmanlike in the chamber.
I echo what George MacBride said.
In essence, that is what is proposed for the transitional arrangements.
I have no knowledge of that.
We are discussing a Westminster bill.
I defer to Professor Midwinter on the matter.
We want a safer and stronger Scotland.
That is why we have approached it responsibly, seeking to be reasonable.
I have a table that shows the cost of collection.
Last week, Richard Simpson referred to a charter for whistleblowers.
Are we having discussions with the private landlord associations about what is happening.
That is a very sustainable and economically manageable situation to be in.
I tried to impress that upon members before the session started.
I can offer a little bit of contextual information.
That links to non domestic rates.
Again, we are happy to look at the operational impact of such a provision.
People cannot be expected to tolerate that.
The arrangement also means that councils are very vulnerable to changes in grant distribution.
Do you mean a framework in the sense of an organisational framework.
Clearly, if there is assignment, there has to be some kind of borrowing mechanism.
All their comments will be collated and examined.
We could also copy it to the Scottish Executive for information.
As far as I am concerned, the reshuffle has not had a bearing on this.
We can therefore address income inequality directly.
Frankly, I think that we should have introduced a living wage in that bill.
A number of precedents exist.
What do we fight for We cannot argue against tax.
I thank the member for taking my intervention after some persuasion.
It would be an important juridical advance if you could secure that.
Legendary Scottish sprinter and Olympic gold medal winner Allan Wells was even more scathing.
West Lothian is an inward investment area.
If the United States needs a warning, hurricane Sandy is one.
A progressive tax is one whereby richer people pay a higher proportion of their income.
I would welcome the ministers comments on that in his summing up.
Minister, before you continue, I ask members whether they would mind ceasing their conversations.
At the moment, we are asking questions of our witnesses.
That is where buoyancy would come in.
Similarly, national organisations such as Scottish Business in the Community are doing great work.
There is a mechanism for further devolution of taxes by agreement in future.
I do not think that that will occur.
They will be particularly visible around transport hubs, crowded places and city centres.
I think that Professor Bell from the University of Stirling argued that.
I need a question, Ms Ferguson.
Thank you, Sir Kenneth, for joining us this afternoon.
You must know exactly what spending in England is driving Scottish spending.
The debate is not only about nation states and the people.
The fifth and final theme is financial investment in the industry.
That is the right way for us to conduct ourselves.
Let me deal with the point about volatility.
Under some interpretations, it could be very damaging.
His points are well made.
If there was a different currency, there would be additional complications.
When there is a drop in consumption, we expect a drop in harm.
There are two things to say in reply to that question.
In the final report, we had to present the evidence that had come in.
I return to the paper.
I welcome the progress that has been made.
However, we do use the market.
That proposal would probably work.
It tends to be rules based and over complicated.
The answer is yes and no.
The rule, therefore, struck me as too strong.
Those concerned came before the committee and went on Panorama and God knows what.
That is not a partisan point.
That has changed as the curriculum has evolved in the secondary school.
Robin Harper spoke about setting a context.
There are many proposals on how the council tax could be reformed or replaced.
But the point is important.
In our paper, we reference the work of Sweeney and others on that issue.
However, we have no comprehensive objective evidence about how significant that margin is.
I have only one more question on that.
I have another question, which is for both ministers.
It would be helpful if tempers were lowered a degree.
That is to the unjust private enrichment of the few.
As a result, taxpayers have difficulty understanding the link between spending decisions and tax levels.
We were surprised by that.
There has also been much discussion about local income tax.
I do not have those figures in front of me.
It is a starting point.
I will have a stab at answering that.
The second reason is the risk of tax competition eroding revenue.
I direct him to the substance of the Auditor Generals report.
The guiding principle should always be practical and demonstrable benefit to the people of Scotland.
Now that she has been accepted as suitable, she has a further wait for treatment.
The new Glasgow Gaelic school lives in the building that was formerly Woodside secondary school.
I emphasise that we are talking about an arithmetic relationship.
I did not think so.
We are also pro reform.
I am just getting to it.
I do not believe that the current arrangements led to unfair comparisons.
I can see that you are itching to do so.
We thank the committee for its invitation.
Implicitly, you would have a tax sharing scheme plus part of the national borrowing.
I am not sure whether I accept that figure.
What is probably more worrying is that organisations were caught out by the latest one.
I have found your evidence stimulating.
We have a point of order.
We have mentioned the cost of that provision, which is great.
Other countries face the problem and are worried about it.
We must all ask whether we are doing enough or could do more.
I am genuinely surprised at that and a bit disappointed.
Does anyone have an objection to that.
I have one final question, which I asked previously but which was not answered.
If we are still confused, we should get some reality round the matter.
People who rob Peter to pay Paul can always count on the support of Paul.
COSLAs main concern was that the proposals would be self financing.
The committee might consider responding to that.
What is your definition of quiet.
Ultimately, we must get better value for money for the public.
Many people are left in dire financial circumstances as a result.
The ministers speech showed a paucity of ambition for Scottish athletes.
What would be the impact on affordable housing People would be unable to afford homes.
I regret that, but that is the honest truth of the matter.
We were considering the bigger issues in that section.
I am not convinced of that.
Institutional changes would be needed to reinforce that.
I appreciate the members concern about the use of playing fields.
Governments can no longer hide behind duties and other factors, such as currency fluctuations.
Is it just omitted or does the UK legislation say something better.
We spent many hours arguing about it.
That is important to us, given that the UK is our fourth largest market.
I stress that the Calman tax does not affect savings or dividend income.
Collection by Scottish Water could be cheaper than the current arrangement.
In turn, that employment supports a range of local services and facilities.
Unfortunately, a number of those inactive sites have Crown Estate leases.
Perhaps we need more guidance from the Scottish Executive, but local flexibility is needed.
There are people who would benefit from that.
It is crucial that the minister gives us an assurance about time scales.
There is no particular reason or strong argument for moving from the Calman commission proposal.
That is certainly the case when it comes to UK wide employers.
Digital security is difficult to picture.
We know the figures for the funding of the Olympics and Paralympics.
We will, of course, keep that closely under review.
I was saying that there, too.
However, I am informed by the clerk that I am supposed to list them.
My question relates to the poll tax.
In turn, the board itself will be accountable to Parliament.
John Mason mentioned the Fleet Street casuals case.
Shellfish cultivation, the main products of which are mussels and oysters, is also expanding steadily.
Ensuring that they exist is a fundamental part of my responsibilities as finance secretary.
We are doing well in that field, but a great deal more must be done.
Thank you very much for coming.
It is an exciting and challenging prospect.
I thank everyone for their time and input.
I saw Parliaments gaining powers, but Parliaments always want more powers.
I agree that the skills gap is a concern.
Finally, let me turn to the weather.
It effects a redistribution of income that is long overdue.
No doubt it is the same down south.
There is perhaps something to build on.
Through Jesus Christ our Lord.
That is not really an additional cost because it had not been estimated by HMRC.
We continue to have constructive dialogue with the banks on that objective.
It is not necessarily independence itself but having those powers that is important.
Those committees conduct the reassessments.
Does Age Concern have any examples.
All those things have come together.
I am not sure that we can always just assume that.
I will take a simple example from the Borders  shopping.
Let us not forget that those businesses have choices.
There should, therefore, be no interventions or interruptions.
At the very least, we should report our concern on the matter.
I will go on to address such issues.
I also mentioned the issue of how rapidly people can complete tax returns.
It could then change them in the ways that it wanted.
The debate has been very positive.
A well designed tax system may have beneficial effects on the economy.
We found that wages, along with a lot of other things, matter.
The case is so overwhelming that the Executive cannot deny that it must act.
That is what we need to do.
We have also seen an increase in research and development projects, which are absolutely crucial.
We have apologies from Helen Eadie.
I pay attention to what Mike Russell says.
As I say, there is nothing to hide.
I will follow up on the question of borrowing.
Sandra, can we have a question.
I think I do know why.
I welcome to the meeting Dr Amanda Fox, Heather Holmes and Ian Turner.
I would not accept that criticism.
He might want to, but he cannot.
The examples that I have spoken about this morning fall into that category.
How can we improve data You said that one difficulty is the quality of data.
That speaks volumes about the scale of the task that is in front of us.
Michael Moore suggested that Northern Ireland is a different kettle of fish altogether.
I encourage him to study the information.
The airline builds up its market and then the route becomes viable.
Our model also recognises that.
Many unpredictable things happen to local authorities.
What would you like the Executive to announce.
However, that is water under the bridge.
Other members have taken themselves out of similar situations to prevent any conflict of interest.
Just stop me if I go wrong.
We meet at official level as well.
I want to record my disappointment that the committee is not going for an inquiry.
I remind everyone present to please turn off mobile phones or other electronic devices.
I thank Shona Robison for bringing this subject to the chamber.
I am therefore required to use my casting vote.
So you do not think that it is a big issue.
There are dangers lurking in the motion.
After all, there is a council tax benefit system that deals with low income.
They are stigmatised and, therefore, the argument about means testing is apposite.
Thank you, Mr Doyle, for your forbearance and patience.
On behalf of the Local Government Committee, I ask members to support the motion.
In many other countries there has been a tendency for tax rates to converge.
I said that I am not persuaded that that is the right way to go.
In a similar way, we cannot undo many years of neglect simply with money.
With that, we move into private session.
 I now extend that advice to Mary Fee.
It has been succeeded by NESTRANS.
I found service issues such as transport and education to be sexier.
What would be the cost to Glasgow of doing that.
Who could blame them The precedent would have seen set.
It has just been one of those afternoons.
You call it simple, although it is not very simple to me.
Would a sales tax be possible in Scotland.
Even suggestions to improve the current council tax system have been rejected.
His advice was that if legal action commences, the payments will stop.
Rather the opposite is suggested in the paper from the Scottish Government.
Like others, I am delighted to have a debate on housing, especially affordable housing.
What percentage of the people at that conference do you think agreed.
Mr Kerr and I are thinking along the same lines.
I will have a meeting next week.
It is not broadcast in all parts of the Highlands, but that will come.
What is the foundation for saying that.
It is no more complicated than proportions.
But devolution is not independence.
Whether things can be done depends on the size of the budget.
The consultation document is structured around five themes.
They recognise the achievements that could be made by fully supporting our athletes.
That is a major issue for us.
I will give just a few examples of practical steps that were mentioned.
We will substitute our stealth taxes with taxes that the electorate notice.
I am not a campaigner.
Most people think that education is the Governments problem anyway.
I assure those in the chamber that that work is well under way.
He will recognise that it is properly a matter for North Ayrshire Council to determine.
The facility will be there.
I also welcome the statesmanlike way in which John Farquhar Munro has handled the matter.
Strangely, council tax benefit acts like an income tax.
I give you a commitment to do that.
We would be interested in your comments.
We do not really know what the mechanism is, but those are some suggestions.
I am happy to take questions.
There is an honest desire among them to reconnect and to communicate better.
The field is called microeconometrics, if you want to know the correct term.
That is certainly the feedback that we get from members.
That was the framework and we all discussed it.
I know that you are an expert on financial matters, but is that your position.
I open the discussion by asking some questions.
The question for the committee is how much extra value the information would give you.
Will you give us more detail about why you think that is.
It is easier to be simple if that is the case.
I would like to know whether we are going to explore it further.
We welcome Karen Whitefield and the committee advisers.
I hope that he will provide us with a timescale in relation to this issue.
We would not need to put in place a new overarching framework.
Are you asking for the end of equalisation with the grant system.
Andy Kerr shakes his head.
That is a de facto national police force.
Nobody in the world has perfect foresight.
I am glad to hear that there are negotiations with the profession on fee levels.
No model that can do such exercises is available from any of the Scottish universities.
Of course, at this very minute in our health service we are training cleanliness champions.
It is doing a lot of hard work and I am interested in the findings.
However, I stress that that is a matter for the First Minister.
Care at that early stage is vital.
There are five tips, none of which is about computing.
It is sad when ministers start to talk about assumptions.
We have heard talk of fiscal flight.
The meeting is still planned and is likely to happen in the next calendar year.
We are simply identifying a systemic Scottish problem, which must be addressed.
A greater level of awareness and vigilance operates across all public services.
That is exactly my point.
The rail link is not a parochial concern.
Would some councils perhaps be disadvantaged by a move to prudential controls.
I hope that that roughly approximated to the following.
We have all bought in to this agenda.
As I said before, the benefits are still only potential.
You should finish now, Ms Lamont.
The minister mentioned that he had visited a school.
That argument is already bubbling away under the surface in all the parties.
We recommended that it must be considered in detail.
The crucial factor, however, was that the outcomes were not up to standard.
Many areas are developing innovative ways of tackling corporate parenting.
That is fairer and buoyant and would produce more revenue.
I ask members to keep their questions short and focused.
We need to consult the youngsters.
I want to ask about Angus Councils views on the distribution system.
It may not therefore be appropriate for the SPCB to commission research in this area.
I shall explain what I mean.
I am interested in compliance issues.
That process will, to a degree, limit demand.
Other criticisms can be made.
However, a range of areas of the bill need to be reconsidered.
How you dealt with that would be a challenge.
That almost brings this meeting to a close.
I enjoyed his story today.
We do not believe that, in the new Scotland, such an approach is sufficient.
It feels as if we are being asked to sign a blank cheque.
Similar proposals have been made in relation to Carronhill special school in Stonehaven.
There is one question on which I would like to touch with all our witnesses.
David Whiteford and his team are helping to lead that charge, through EatScotland.
I was reminded of that when I read RSPB Scotlands briefing note for the debate.
Winter preparedness is an on going process rather than a one off event.
We are all working very hard.
Secondly, the money that we will be borrowing will be overwhelmingly private funds.
Indeed, it could become the tax collection authority for Scotland.
Serco NorthLink has stated that there will be no compulsory redundancies.
That is one way of looking at it.
The minister said that he has already had discussions.
That concludes questions from committee members.
I hope that that makes my position clear.
We all agree that the sooner those steps can be taken the better.
There is always a behavioural part that you do not see.
You have provided three empirical studies to reinforce the result that devolution increases growth.
I understand the value of Dumfries house.
We seem to be agreeing.
Clearly, there are matters that we need to address.
I am a former director of the Institute for Public Policy Research.
We are not expressing a view on whether we support the bill.
People will take advantage of whatever taxation system we have.
Such practices are engaged in at the behest of the supermarkets and, indirectly, the consumer.
Scotland provides a competitive environment in comparison with many locations.
Usually they are from countries that have one or several minority languages.
I do not know the source of the comments to which the witness was referring.
Small changes could be made.
A fair number of letters has been ping ponging backwards and forwards.
The other thing that feeds into this, it seems to me, is fiscal devolution.
Therefore, we need to increase the number of national parks that we have in Scotland.
You would support the transfer of some welfare power but not everything.
The crucial point is that we need taxes that we can actually do something about.
Will Sylvia Jackson give way.
I commend the bill to Parliament.
That issue needs to be looked at.
Secondly, I know some of the fund managers at Standard Life.
We will deliver all the projects in the infrastructure investment programme for Scotland.
I accept that the concept is often a difficult one for people to wrestle with.
Those patterns might be very deep rooted.
Secondly, we look at evidence on the effect of fiscal drag.
The rail link would undoubtedly increase the usage of the airport.
You favour a local income tax as a supplement to council tax.
We could use that indicator.
Members will understand that there was reduced flexibility all round.
The RSPB briefing raises some serious issues about the health of Scotlands seas.
My answer is similar to that of my colleague John King.
There is a fine and a penalty, and people might go to prison.
Ahead of the debate, we received various submissions from voluntary sector organisations.
I am sorry, but I simply do not have time to take any constituency questions.
We do not need tarmac or hard core.
Many dentists no longer take NHS patients.
I presume that the issue for the Scottish Parliament will be on the expenditure side.
Which is what we did.
I just wanted to ram that home.
In particular, the university has been extremely successful in attracting international students.
I feel strongly for councillors, who will find themselves in an almost impossible position.
Some tribunals are already devolved, but the tax tribunal is not one of them.
I was pleased that Rhona Brankin visited a toothbrushing scheme at a nursery in Aberdeen.
Agreed, but it involves the same principle of creating a single market, does it not.
I am aware of the matter that Mr Maxwell raises.
The minister was absolutely right to say that mainstreaming cannot be imposed on schools.
That is because it is Jersey based.
Nonetheless, the committee picked up on those general themes, added to them and progressed them.
The council tax makes inequality worse.
I suppose that that is right.
The Executive has set out a range of definitions of child poverty.
I call Jamie Hepburn, to be followed by Malcolm Chisholm.
This is partly about the performance reporting of revenue Scotland.
We need to be very careful about how we look after that industry.
We do not have anyone who wants to make a point.
It seems to me that that is a bigger challenge.
We would therefore argue strongly that you devolve the powers.
Our rationale for supporting retention of council tax is that it provides stability.
I thank the minister for giving way once again.
I am anxious to move on.
Clearly, that would result in a very uneven distribution of resources.
Two months later, the situation is reversed.
Many countries tax agricultural land as part of their normal taxation system.
I have not seen the process mapping, but I understand that it is nearly done.
We are a little bit behind the clock.
A series of issues needs to be considered.
Mr Kerr makes a fair point.
It also fits in with some of our other requirements with regard to infrastructure.
Are they defying the laws of economics Possibly.
We should recognise that being able to provide patients with choice is important.
I would appreciate hearing about the international experience in that regard.
If I may, I will divide my answer in two.
I will highlight a couple of statements in your review.
The railways were privately run until they were nationalised.
We all have to work together to make legislative proposals work effectively.
It funds a number of organisations that work with people with learning disabilities, including autism.
We must examine our technology and use it more efficiently.
We should also be patient, because access to certain events and locations will take longer.
This remains the case with these amendments.
Yet the deputy minister stands there and defends the council tax system.
They are presented as a way of solving the problems with council tax.
What I suggest is that we need to clarify who is responsible for services.
Many members had similar reasons why their opposition to the proposal was warranted.
I think that those in the industry are already familiar with that process.
Jackie Baillie made many of the points that I would want to make.
I support an efficient government programme that works across the board.
We have the same legislation today, and look at what is happening.
Thank you for the opportunity to appear before the committee.
I cannot envisage a circumstance ever when the chair would not be a Gaelic speaker.
I address my question to Dr Gillan.
Tax receipts can go up or down, so there are always risks in such devolution.
That was rather neat, minister.
That has in any case to be done for income tax on earnings and pensions.
We have done that and we have been fair and reasonable in our response.
I want to ask about the application of land value taxation to agricultural land.
Secondly, I might have to disappoint you.
With great respect, that is a clear misrepresentation of the funding model.
I am sure that Sir Stephen House shares it, too.
There is also the question of educational provision for looked after children.
We talk about league tables.
My question is basically to ask whether anything is specifically excluded.
It is possible to share the revenue from a sales tax.
I have already done so.
However, we are all working to improve that situation.
to look at the whole picture.
Some of those things are, at this stage, unknown.
Mr Findlay, I do not think that the member is taking your intervention.
I would like that to be a starting point.
I say to Peter Kelly that he has had an unfair ride at the committee.
First, I will examine its relationship to the ability to pay.
The problem arises from the somewhat unreasonable structure of a tax that is not proportional.
I am delighted to do so.
I understand that, but which other taxes would you have added.
Is not that right Perhaps Malcolm MacKenzie, our adviser, knows how to do calculus.
Anything else is a bit of a red herring.
It tends to be things such as coal, rather than finished goods.
Does the committee confirm for the record what we agreed.
Work has been done on issues such as a sense of resilience.
We have copies of internal memoranda of that time that were sent to employers.
A local income tax would be a step backwards for this country.
I am a professor of economics, specialising in public finance, at the Université de Montréal.
I will use an example from the Scotland Bill to illustrate my point.
The bill should be voted down today.
There are still many members who want to ask a question.
We acknowledge receipt of the written questions following the previous meeting.
I have no further questions.
Which one does Bill Aitken think that he resembles.
I have concerns, as I have with revenue, about the high level of hypothecation.
I think that you have misplaced the decimal point, Professor Bell.
Can you explain where my basic economics is going wrong.
No doubt people will do more number crunching on that.
Judges and lawyers could argue for weeks over what is reasonable or adequate.
If we cannot put two crosses in two columns, we might as well give up.
It has been proposed that a research co ordinator be appointed.
I met the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner just over an hour ago.
I thank members, the press and public for attending.
Perhaps anybody who has been appointed to a public position should always declare specific interests.
Opening more national parks would help to do that.
How could the Scottish Government obtain its policy objective through the devolution of excise duty.
That just is not right.
I have often thought that.
We have identified deprivation, urbanity and rurality as the issues to move forward.
So that would carry on exponentially with any tax figure at all.
What is your view of that proposition.
That is a huge concern, so I agree with Garry Clark on that point.
I bet that this will be a question about the Scottish Borders.
They have the ambition for that and the confidence that it is possible.
It will become a statutory scheme in the longer term.
It is a real problem to support those people, so that is definitely an issue.
In order to improve participation and accountability, people must understand the system.
They need to know who will pay their pensions and how they will be paid.
It depends very much on the level at which the income tax is pitched.
Therefore, it should be rejected.
As a foot soldier myself, I will never support a football team GB.
I am sure that members found that very useful.
It is not my fault if he cannot think of the right questions.
That is called the excess burden or dead weight loss.
I will rewind first, if I may, and then I will come back to him.
Our single outcome agreements with local authorities provide the vehicle for so doing.
I do not know how to solve problems with girls in that respect.
Was your first question for Mr Springford.
I would never recommend doing that.
He is a member of the council of the Henry George Foundation of Great Britain.
We will proceed to the vote.
I am sorry to interrupt, minister.
That is a challenge for a social democratic state.
There has been one exception to that pattern.
I shall endeavour to be brief, Presiding Officer.
All of that would in consequence help the monitoring and evaluation role that I highlighted.
I am happy to agree with and endorse those comments.
It is entirely legitimate to discuss planning as part of housing.
I am thinking particularly of the cheap vodka that Dr Gillan mentioned earlier.
No, and that is part of the EUs unique character.
The process of receiving submissions concluded some time ago.
To an extent, the argument is a political one.
It is a question of morality.
She said that it was almost unethical to have free dental checks.
It cannot say one thing, then do another.
The issue is far more complex.
You said that you support more local taxes and you discussed council tax in detail.
There is a slight sore point there.
That is the most important thing in the initial stages.
I was not expecting that rather comprehensive answer.
Food is central to who we are and what this country is.
The block grant is by far the simplest way of funding Scotland.
It is extremely difficult to predict what will happen.
Hence, I disagree with the Lamborghini reform that has just come in.
However, I agree that it does not affect the relative position between Scotland and England.
I think that Thomas the Tank Engine is more believable than that fairytale.
Red tape remains a barrier.
We are consciously incorporating the jurisprudence in relation to collection and management.
Your submission differs from the others in that it highlights myriad examples of that.
As John Swinburne rightly said, pensions have not kept pace with the increases.
There are variations of Edwards syndrome, including mosaic and partial forms.
I can quote from each of those months as I toured the television studios.
Conservatives do not think that that is the right way to go.
It is a question of accountability, which is an important issue here.
The strategy has been a success already.
The information should and must be collated and monitored regularly over time.
I do not want to get into a dogfight about budget cuts.
I do not think that it was to do with tax competition at all.
Alex Neils point about the make up of the Standards Committee struck me.
I hope that that work can be generally extended.
That process must begin with the recent attack on our NHS.
Elasticity is how a tax increases relative to its tax base.
The existing programmes would allow flexibility for differing bands.
It is not possible to have social policy that does not involve risks.
The miserable performance of the SNP has not encouraged anybody either.
HMRC constantly seeks to improve its performance and has been making substantial progress in that.
Whatever a persons disability, this bill is of importance to them.
You are quoting rather selectively.
The meeting is now open, comrades.
That is the issue, and it could be a nuisance in the union.
Sufferers of mental illness can feel isolated and experience significant stress.
It is an absolute disgrace, and we need to try to address it in Scotland.
That is nothing personal with respect to Tommy Sheridans bill.
I ask the minister to look again at the single seller survey.
We are taking action to ensure that we are adequately prepared.
I remind everyone to turn off BlackBerrys, mobile phones, pagers and so on.
The minister will not be able to disregard the terms of that code.
It is vital that we maintain momentum in this very important area.
Would you reverse that policy.
Frankly, I was appalled by the behaviour of that dentist.
That programme is just about one of the best things in schools.
May I ask another question.
I certainly have to get one, because it is just far too complicated.
It is time to give our councils resources in a clear and simple way.
You should wind up now, Dr Murray.
I am instinctively against profiling people.
The rail link would be effective at improving and developing tourism in the Glasgow economy.
Yes, indeed, but you have to raise the money in order to spend it.
Can I answer it You are absolutely right, Mr McMahon.
That development must be part of a package that includes the airport links.
You should be winding up.
He is fairly confident about that and made a broad statement on that.
Thank you for your colourful contribution.
Is that economic growth No, it is just short term employment.
The Executive will find it difficult to get its proposed legislation through this Parliament.
However, I am happy to take members questions on my submission.
I will move on to something that everyone admits to agreeing with.
I think that that concludes our questions.
I thank Mr Swinney for his explanation.
We have focused on a detail in a paper.
That should be a public document that the committee will have an opportunity to scrutinise.
I noted that in your report.
Problems must be dealt with by the local authority.
Often, those are the issues that drive health workers out of certain areas.
Borrowing is a good thing, and I will say two things about it.
With the agreement of members, I will then bring decision time forward.
That, too, is manifestly unfair.
I am sure that it was not.
We have said that we will discuss all serious, detailed proposals.
That is not publishing it, but I cannot believe that it can remain secret.
I thank the member for using my Sunday name.
The professionalism of Scottish teachers is a key input.
The report is supposed to be looking at local government finance for the future.
The Scottish Government has, as one of its principal aims, the promotion of sustainable development.
The other sub national Governments include US states, cantons in Switzerland and regions in Spain.
Leadership nationally and locally will be essential to taking the proposal forward.
There can be a link with ability to pay.
I do not believe that.
Des McNulty expanded on that.
There is a lot of supposition around that issue.
We will continue to build that capacity.
It is frustrating from our point of view.
In the longer term, that figure could be doubled, but talks are continuing.
They did not think that there would be such an increase.
I do not find the idea that we will do that strange or difficult.
Europe continues to enlarge and expand eastwards, incorporating new friends and offering new markets.
That is an issue that we debate often.
It is difficult to agree with all the recommendations, as the Executive has found.
Our position is that the best system of raising local government finance is council tax.
I have two points on that.
After correcting for price levels, the same difference will not always be yielded.
I seek your guidance on technical income tax issues.
Those are calls for the rhetoric to match the reality.
He made that very plain when he came to see me.
Around half of our young people undertake higher education.
We have a successful yield from that employer compliance work.
Land value taxation offers us a completely new social paradigm.
That is what I thought.
Those are all skills that we would like to develop in children.
Let us have the debate and resolve the question.
May I finish You all agreed to the time for the debate.
Part of that stability lies in guaranteeing minimum increases in the grant system.
The relationship is much messier and more complex than it has ever been.
It is crucial to get that kind of joined up thinking and planning.
The partys official policy is now aligned with our own.
to be completed by December.
They look at the situation through a completely different lens.
I do not know whether you are familiar with that word.
If we need to get back to you, we will do that.
It is based on spending.
I do not want to prolong the discussion of the issue.
I will move on quickly to one other question on two areas.
To be fair to Helen Eadie, she has supported the new Forth bridge.
That would be a mistake and the recommendation is regrettable.
It is on a separate matter.
Otherwise we come up against all sorts of problems.
If less money is raised, there will be a gap.
Last night, the Deputy First Minister did not rule out a public inquiry.
The clerks will be tasked with organising that on our behalf.
That was the first event in Parliament supporting the biosphere programme.
As I have said, that would be a perfectly appropriate procedure for some taxes.
Consider the wild variation in house prices.
I am interested in your organisations views on education for citizenship.
That is largely why the labour force has grown.
Do not hector Professor Bell while he is giving the answer.
However, luckily I stayed with English data.
I would find out the best forecasting formula, which I promise you is more complicated.
A national residential care review is on going, and it will report soon, too.
As usual, it is the councils and the council tax payers who will pay.
It is a pity that more people were not there to listen.
I thank her for giving me advance notice of it.
Will you talk us through that issue.
I therefore do not think that this has happened because of the contract.
If I remember correctly, The Herald published a correction.
It is also appropriate to recognise the work that Murray Tosh did on the committee.
We need to protect the affordable and social rented housing sector in rural areas.
The question keeps recurring, but now we have an answer.
There must be a lot of trust in the process.
I take your point on board, as, I am sure, do my colleagues.
Clearly, the impact of that on smaller businesses is proportionately bigger.
On revaluations, there is a good quotation from Machiavelli.
From April, we have doubled the general dental practice allowance, which supports practice costs.
Alan Alexander talked about contestability among local authorities.
However, it will not want to bear the consequences of policy changes elsewhere.
It did not assume that there would be any loss of economic activity in Scotland.
We need more targeted support and we must involve the voluntary sector better.
We have tried to respond as positively as we can to its recommendations.
But you have not chosen the mechanism yet.
One strange thing about Switzerland is how scattered its population is.
We must practise climate justice at home as well as abroad.
The evidence can be seen.
That is why I support what the cabinet secretary said.
I do not think that there is a right or a wrong answer.
The rule change was passed at a meeting of members that was held in Edinburgh.
We have to look at it holistically.
Would you not create more problems than solutions by even contemplating that move.
The whole point of PFI and PPP was to take these things off balance sheet.
There is consensus on an on going review and inquiry process.
Of course, the Labour Government in Westminster has published its draft climate change bill.
I know that the minister said that the Government also regrets that.
Why is there a difference of approach.
Entrepreneurship would be stifled, and many sole traders would simply not qualify.
That is having a major impact.
The response came in all forms.
Of course, if you acquire your own tax collection agency, that might be different.
Secondly, we all know how that story ended.
That is the cycle about which we are concerned.
I am concerned about the timetable.
We need to see more of the detail.
In that regard, APD could be a huge risk.
You let her go on too long.
I hope that I have an answer.
I am also slightly concerned by the inclination to promote flagship projects.
I will take that on.
We know that we must take action early and then reverse the rise in emissions.
Very quickly, please, because I think that Mr Rennie wants to come in.
The next item of business is a statement by Keith Brown on NorthLink Ferries.
NorthLink has been advising customers of the possibility of disruption for that reason.
I offer my apologies in advance for that.
It is popular with Scottish consumers but is taxed at the distillery in Warrington.
There is a clear definition of what constitutes an efficiency saving.
I agree with the general proposition that local government has an incredibly narrow tax base.
It would solve most of the problems.
We are awaiting a response from the Executive to that petition.
The council has been in touch with me on the matter.
Does Mr Swinney have Westminster agreement on that That is a straightforward question.
The use of top slicing and hold back arrangements is pernicious and unfair to councils.
Your submission concentrates on the issue of currency.
Their parents might lead chaotic lifestyles, be drug dependent or simply be unable to cope.
Shellfish growers are concerned about the availability of sites and leases.
It is quite important to emphasise how they might work.
We want joint management and performance targets.
To ask the Scottish Government what success it is having in increasing employment opportunities.
To be absolutely clear, I am not here to defend the indefensible.
followed by	Parliamentary Bureau Motions.
I think that I have spoken for long enough, convener.
As regards income tax, we look at three aspects.
Have you considered setting up such a panel in Scotland.
A modern games will bring tremendous investment, regeneration and employment.
We must not be complacent.
Obviously, there would be direct losses from businesses that would have paid a higher rate.
I think that there is a point of agreement here.
I had thought that it was.
I will highlight briefly the lines of argument in my submission.
From my perspective, chief executives, directors of finance and politicians have to be involved.
Will you expand on that and explain your concerns.
I will just make a few points about the block grant adjustment.
I wish everybody a very happy and prosperous new year.
Land value taxation would fall more heavily on urban areas and less on rural areas.
One of the ways to do that is by raising taxes.
In this instance, that may be the case, but I am talking in general terms.
It does not have to be a creative, innovative solution.
That work will be ready shortly.
We are committed to delivering.
We do that quite often.
It is fair to give credit to the United Kingdom Government.
That has to be addressed.
The Swedes, the Austrians and the Dutch also pay relatively more than us.
Certainty is achieved partly through people being used to practices.
A report in the new format will come in the spring.
Let him answer the question, Michael.
That ends questions to the cabinet secretary.
I will ask one more question and then open up the session to colleagues.
Development value is a well known concept.
There is also the issue of the large cost of adaptations for particular children.
I will pick out a couple of themes that emerged from the debate.
The report recommended action by Government and children's services.
One pensioner proclaimed loudly that he favoured the poll tax.
However, in important respects, the persistent issues remain.
Hugh Henry is quite right  this is about the direct human experience.
It is open to the committee to give its views.
I turn to the other points that Mr Kerr raised.
Where we work together constructively and argue our case, we are successful.
I mentioned a lift in a primary school that I know.
That is something that people such as Bristow Muldoon should give some credence to.
That is how we will deliver the abolition of the council tax.
However, it is not limited to salaries and can relate to any form of taxation.
Asset transfers already happen across Scotland.
I do not think so.
That brings us to the end of questions for the COSLA panel of witnesses.
I remind members that Mr Sheridans figures are based on a number of assumptions.
We need to treat people as partners in their care.
I thank the cabinet secretary for her in depth answer.
I wish that you had not asked me that question.
My dentist went private six months ago.
The two committees should hold inquiries with tight remits.
That is the equivalent of losing East Kilbride, Cumbernauld and one or two other places.
Different views have been expressed to us by the two Governments concerned.
It is a matter of taking forward the feeling of collaboration.
I know that you did.
The approach would not necessarily cost more.
I have a question for Angela Roger.
We do not see much evidence of flexibility in local authorities.
Local income tax exists in other countries.
At the moment, it is up to him.
The balance will alter if the incentives alter.
Why did you say should rather than will.
I, too, welcome publication of the infrastructure investment plan.
The problem of the tax trap is significant.
It will not be an estimate.
Am I right in thinking that businesses do not look to the long term.
You are talking about a collaborative approach.
The same can happen in the whisky industry.
Let us be honest with one another.
The paragraph continues then there could be costs in terms of teaching time and administrative costs.
The SNP has long shown grass roots interest in land value taxation.
If I remember rightly, the power to set that rate has lapsed.
This is a complex subject, as you will agree.
The Executive now appears to be embracing five year carbon budgeting.
We took issue with the criteria that the Scottish Executive proposed.
I agree that taxes should be related to peoples ability to pay.
We are aware of such examples.
You seem to have rubber stamped that.
I have one more question.
I think that I voted for Will.
You spent a lot of time on the matter.
Has the DWP said why that will no longer be the case.
You do indeed, as you took two interventions.
The principle is stated in the rules and seems to be fairly logical.
You have certain spikes on the income distribution.
For many of us, that time is etched on our memories.
I want to talk about the report.
As we have heard acknowledged, the level of support is critical.
Historically, our members have had concerns about politicians controlling taxation.
That is a good question, because it varies from band to band.
Of course, I may wait a long time for that.
Services will not be cut, they will just be delivered more efficiently.
However, there are other activities that might require dogs to be transported.
I am sorry that I missed Lord James Douglas Hamiltons speech.
Dentists have to drill and fill as fast as they can.
That is what the rules are about.
Mr Don has the next question.
It had to revise its predictions on UK growth recently, did it not.
That might be a good thing, because there are large stocks of them needing sold.
When I first came to the new Parliament, the debate had just started in Edinburgh.
The time limits are therefore not absolute requirements under the bill.
It is upon that ideology that the council tax was built.
I find some political science research very strange.
I say that as a result of personal experience.
First, there is the sex offenders register that Ms Sturgeon mentioned.
Let us not forget that there will be a huge competition about designation.
The paper might have gone to HMRC today, but I have not seen it.
A no vote in the referendum is also a rejection of that option.
I will clarify the position for the member.
The paper that you submitted was good and it addressed the points.
I am happy to chair this session taking evidence from a UK minister.
We cannot wave a magic wand and suddenly stop deprivation in those communities.
Mr Swinneys argument has some validity.
Do members wish me to express any views in a letter to that committee.
If we put all our money on sharing services, it will not be enough.
We then make deductions for the various taxes.
When the Parliament was set up, there was an adage that it was Strathclyde revisited.
I hope that Mr Mason will acknowledge that we are far from that position.
I hope that Parliament will seize that opportunity.
The nature of treatment is changing and much more complex treatments are required.
I move on to the case for rejecting a local income tax.
In fact, that is one of the features of our new schools of ambition programme.
That is helpful, and I think that it will be welcomed across the board.
That is not an intervention.
Indeed, there are much more complicated voting or ballot forms abroad.
I will give a good example of what I consider to be integration that works.
We have had an excellent debate.
I imagine that people who belong to different political parties do occasionally fall out.
The London Olympics are spiralling out of control.
What the UK Government negotiates will not necessarily reflect what is in Scotlands best interests.
That means that we have got the process substantially right.
If we need more information from you, we will get in touch.
You could take whatever figure you want within that.
Scottish Government officials meet counterparts in Scottish Enterprise regularly, on a range of subjects.
Such a case must never happen again.
I am happy to do that.
Once again, we are putting the cart before the horse.
A clear majority in our nation was against the poll tax.
Preventing fraud in rebating is an issue.
Lord Foulkes, if you would be quiet, please, I might say something.
I fear that you may have to help me.
However, the solution to the problem is not simple.
I have not received the members letter yet.
The discussion has been very interesting so far.
No, I am speaking in general terms.
You do not really have to understand the business cycle of the Scottish economy.
You say Taxing property transactions is also a source of inefficiency.
People just have to take sensible precautions.
Such a system would be clean and clear.
This year the council tax rise will not be much greater than inflation.
We do not want to see migration between council areas.
However, it is potentially more of an issue in a within territory situation.
I support the general principles of the bill.
Members from throughout the chamber will speak about that this morning, as some already have.
The extended family benefit exceedingly from the provision of palliative care.
We have the capacity to grow more of our own food in Scotland.
It makes sense for projects to be delivered at a local level with local input.
Do members have any questions for Phil.
I agree with her on this occasion.
Let me continue, because this is a very important issue.
It is an indication of the high priority that the subject is given.
As Mr Raines has pointed out, information has been provided except on the capital issue.
I ask Bill Aitken to concede that all SNP members are committed to growth.
It is, therefore, an appropriate tool.
In addition to the three issues that I have raised, there were many others.
I only just found out about the change in timings for this afternoons business.
We must do everything in our power to ease that entry into helping voluntary organisations.
The noise is from the Ireland fans celebrating their win.
That is the point that I am trying to highlight.
There is hope for people without jobs and for people without homes.
In particular, they will diverge in response to an oil price shock.
That is my general comment.
It also contains various ideas on how that can be implemented.
If a patient cannot find a GP, the health board must do so.
Let me explain the point.
That may not be an answer to the question.
You mentioned the register of interests for MSPs.
The removal vans would not arrive the day after Tommy Sheridans bill was enacted.
Most people are overwhelmingly indifferent about the process of government until something goes wrong.
Nevertheless, funding for the CAP has diminished slowly.
In the last UK budget, the lower income tax threshold was raised.
Thank you very much for attending today.
Many of them have made similar representations to me.
It was imperative that it did so.
The DWP has changed its mind on that and we need to work with that.
I invite Professors Scott and Hughes Hallett to make some opening remarks.
We will pick that up and put it on a future agenda.
I met Demi last summer when she was an Olympic torch bearer in Dumfries.
We cannot pass a bill and hope that it is compliant.
I hope that the cabinet secretary will start speaking the language of priorities.
I ask those who are going to ask questions to make them brief.
The Scottish Government has many other economic levers.
Indeed, it would have to be, as good shellfish require good clean water to grow.
Most public expenditure is committed.
Sandra White is talking about trusts competing with one another.
Again, we must strike a balance between idealism and realism.
I prefer the latter approach.
I hope that every member will welcome that when it comes.
My short answer would have been that it is absurd to assume a static background.
Let us consider the arguments that we have heard on local income tax.
Over recent times, we have created a national cycle track system.
That has to be done through the smaller businesses.
The HMRC paper made that very clear.
It is against that background that we have to judge these issues.
There cannot be back door or front door rubbish collection for every property.
So, I do not quite see how you get this inherent fiscal drag at all.
Let us share those frustrations and ensure that the minister responds to them.
We can raise that issue.
We have seen that happening on major infrastructure projects such as the Forth replacement crossing.
I am sorry about that.
You paint a fairly gloomy picture of the future of local government.
I promise that this will be my final question.
Land Reform Scotland is Scotlands sole dedicated land reform organisation.
It is also working actively on recruiting more dentists to improve access.
I thank Margaret Mitchell for raising the matter.
That has not always been the case.
I do not think that we have had a formal mechanism.
First, there is the local community.
The pressure on foster carers brings its own problems of inadequate or unsuitable placements.
As a result, I am disappointed with the Executives response on the issue.
We do not accept that the inaccuracy would be to that extent.
All those situations are important components of our facilities for young people.
What do Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Greece, Austria and Switzerland all have in common.
In the short term, there is almost always fiscal drag if nominal incomes are growing.
It reflects the interdependence of states in Europe.
Are you aware that it will be factored in.
It is not work that I have done.
Obviously, we want to hear what your views are.
That was not always the case.
That the Parliament agrees to the general principles of the Scottish Parliamentary Standards Commissioner Bill.
Statutorily, it cannot have that information.
However, it must be put in place as early as possible.
Can I pick up on that point.
The tax competition issue will come up sooner or later.
You have pointed to one of the flaws in the bill.
Both your parties took the bill proposals into the election in May and got hammered.
The money would come from two sources.
It seems to me that the bill covers almost everything.
I assume that the Inland Revenue would resist that and would investigate matters thoroughly.
Those are deliberately purposive tests.
No, I will get into my speech, which deals with the report.
Your submission also says that you feel that revaluation should take place.
Similarly, the desire to move around will not be acceptable to some of the audience.
That does not lead us to consider the total economic picture for Scotland.
There is a back door way in, but the benefit is not as good.
However, he does not know where the money has gone.
That is the key point that I was trying to establish.
Is that a reasonable alternative to a limit.
That will add considerably to the cost of compliance.
The third line concerns staffing, roles and responsibilities.
I would prefer to try and fail than not try at all with devolution.
That is a problem with the current system.
The research report highlights training issues, about which Nanette Milne spoke.
How would you respond to that.
In addition, councils have other resources at their disposal.
Neither the patient nor his relatives were able to cope.
Incomes in Scotland have not fallen for at least a generation.
I stand by that judgment absolutely.
For the record, that is most unfair on the member of staff involved.
No one likes to pay taxes, but everyone knows that they are a necessary evil.
I thank Mary Scanlon for that pertinent question.
It would be difficult to compare like with like.
I will address your question about why the NHS is different from welfare, Mr Mason.
That summarises some of the findings of the research.
I just wanted to take up Fergus Ewings question.
Perhaps more important is inward investment.
It seems to me that we have a good base to build on in Scotland.
There are two main reasons why I am not surprised.
Local authorities are committed to effecting that investment.
One fundamental problem, particularly for older people, is the implementation of council tax benefit.
The European Committee report is excellent.
Are you suggesting that we should return to the old regional council system.
I welcome our fourth witness, Dougald Middleton, who is a partner with Ernst & Young.
In Kent, it has been suggested that council tax increases should not apply to pensioners.
That is one of the great benefits of devolution and of the Scottish Parliament.
We flagged up another point in our paper.
Irene Oldfather mentioned the need for early scrutiny.
However, I am not aware that the OBR is any worse than others in forecasting.
I cannot remember where the figure is or what it is.
A number of complexities are involved in the interface between local and national taxation.
I will finish my speech.
That is recognition that we are at a crossroads.
I do not see how title deed information is relevant.
Having a secret method provides no real security, and that remains true today.
I am pleased to have been involved in this debate on the reforms.
If I were offered stability in grant I would take it.
Social engineering is one of the simplest ways of overcoming our technical defences.
I want to focus on that.
For me, devolution is about a clear understanding of the importance of aviation to Scotland.
We cannot hear a word back here.
I have the commitment to road safety that the member mentions.
There is an element of the procurement discussion that is hard to reconcile.
You can look it up yourself.
The SWA also claims that the proposal will put thousands of jobs at risk.
We await details on excise duties.
If that is the case, then I agree with it.
That is a significant number of employees in remote and rural parts of the country.
League tables are perhaps a blunt instrument to use.
Our argument is predicated on that.
As I said, our evidence goes through some of that.
The argument is about not just economic benefits, but convenience.
It reassures communities and helps to prevent crime, particularly violent crime.
Derek Allen will speak to evidence submitted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
That was our final item this morning.
For me, the learning curve has been steep and long.
However, Alex Neil has not supplied the Parliament with such a definition.
They are able to do that because they have a large chunk of wealth.
That judgment is immensely difficult to make.
I will pick up on a few of the points that Bristow Muldoon made.
I tried to work out the numbers.
Transferring housing allocation powers to local government would help in that respect.
The system of local government finance is an integral part of our ability to deliver.
We would love to do so.
I remember such questions also from university.
We are making some impact, but it is not significant.
That advice has not yet been received.
As we said yesterday, the terrorists will not win.
It is still making progress in the marketplace.
That committee was discussing demographic changes, which affect pensions, too.
Thank you for that information.
We will continue to defend and improve the achievements of the health service in Scotland.
I am on public record as saying that I do not.
I am sure that we can reach consensus.
I commend the bill to members and call on them to support its general principles.
Athletes in Scotland are supported by parties on all sides as unionists.
We are also developing national workforce data on the staff who are delivering psychological therapies.
In due course, we can consider the reforms that we will propose.
I cannot prevent industrial disputes, but I can try to facilitate their resolution.
It found that we were falling significantly short in our provision.
Such a provision would be a useful addition to the bill.
]Of course, the bill does more than combat tax avoidance.
In the meantime, the position is absolutely clear.
The only extra thing would be our sending them a tax bill.
It is a human problem that requires a human solution.
Do members also agree to the approach to budget scrutiny that we previously discussed.
Local government is debating issues around the Scottish Water model.
Those children were very vulnerable, and stop and search protected them against crime.
In other words, do not keep flogging a dead horse.
Do you wish to make any further points to the committee.
The analysis in the research is not whistling in the dark.
We now have an enormous problem because no Government dares revalue the council tax base.
The tax also severely penalises pensioners.
They say that and then they tell us not to borrow a penny.
That is the most likely direction of change.
He has reverted to his old days as a lawyer.
The issue is the best way of doing that.
It is accepted in the memorandums that that is a possibility.
Yes, if it is all right with other members.
That is possible because of the concentration of Gaelic speakers there.
We really appreciate your excellent input.
Recently, my local hospital employed additional consultants, some of whom came from hospitals in England.
We have discussed HMRC with witnesses, and have heard about various experiences.
However, there have been moments of clarity between those exchanges.
The challenge will be to maintain the patience of the people while you do so.
I am happy to go straight to the questions.
I have one more question, if I may, convener.
I am sorry that I am late.
I would like Peter Peacock to explain that when he winds up.
If we can tidy up the practice, that would be good.
We need an independent Scotland with real power to transform our country.
The rest of us realise that it is a resource.
They elected us jointly to run Scotland for their benefit.
The teaching profession is vital to the development of personal growth and critical thinking.
The other local authorities are positioned in between.
It gives clear and official recognition to Gaelic.
Could you come to your question please.
We have a last quick question on corporation tax from Mr Don.
Tricia Marwick makes some important points.
At the moment, I would argue yes.
All those things are likely to keep me here in Scotland.
We can make council tax fairer, and we should.
I am trying to draw together the points on which there is consensus.
Unsurprisingly, he commended the Finance Committees report.
That is what I am trying to work out.
The First Minister still has not answered.
I note what the member says about public transport in Ayr.
There is no argument whatever on that issue.
So Scotland gets all the take but none of the give.
Of course, such a choice is no longer realistic.
Every question this afternoon has highlighted a different aspect of this most important initiative.
That is the case now, as of two weeks ago.
It is a very important tipping point among that elite.
We now proceed to the vote for Margo MacDonald.
No one coming to Scotland should be expected to take hassle.
Are you saying that that is a sensible idea.
Our remit was set by the Scottish Parliament.
The council tax is the subject of independent review.
The most revealing thing is Labours backing for the council tax.
So far, such plans have always collapsed.
You can answer in a minute.
I look forward to the autumn consultation on better value that Stewart Maxwell announced.
I do not know how more certain it needs to be.
Angus Council considers that ring fencing takes away many opportunities for local initiative and creativity.
I am grateful to the member for giving me notice.
The minister should consider that issue.
That point was made by my organisation, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
I should declare that I am a member of ICAS.
I appreciate the challenge that you set out for the OBR.
It is people, not houses, who use services.
If things are not working properly, the situation can be rectified at that point.
The hard fact is that there is not necessarily a sufficient connection between the two.
We also know that those who are most likely to be victims are young men.
Highland NHS Board and four other health boards are in the vanguard.
No, I voted for Gareth.
I think that that would give a lot of comfort.
You would have to tell me who you think that is.
It gave no formal consideration to them whatever.
We are already seeing the effects of that.
The fall of those proposals means that other options must be considered.
Your evidence has been first class, and we have had an interesting discussion.
As we said, there are caveats.
It does not mention revenue raising.
As a former catering professional, I welcome that.
I think that it will be up for discussion this afternoon.
That will be the focus of part of the legislative process.
That would make the system more efficient and deliver more results.
We should start in schools to teach people how to do that.
I will look at that in the Official Report.
That is one of the issues that we have to address.
However, in general, that is how we conduct our engagements.
That is the logic behind the position that I described.
I thank Shona Robison for bringing the debate to the chamber.
I did not cover your example, but you make a fair point.
I declare a personal enthusiasm for land value tax.
That is a really important issue.
I return to Mr Rumbless point.
I say that having been party to some of that work.
People pay according to their ability to pay, as Bill Wilson said.
For another, the Norwegian Labour Party had been a member of Comintern.
That frees up additional armed police officers to support police forces across the UK.
I thank John Swinney for the advance copy of his statement.
Teachers must be helped to understand how mainstreaming works.
That will allow us to get through the topics in the time that is available.
We are absolutely committed to that.
Yes, I mean a tax on its production.
It also cost the Scottish Parliament dear.
The figure comes from the Institute for Fiscal Studies.
It has a lot of rules, regulations and guidance, rather than a fixed limit.
You can follow the example if you want, Fergus.
Getting that sorted out will be much more difficult than taxing corporate income.
Some interesting issues must be addressed.
The committee made no recommendations about any of the illustrations.
That will give us hope for the future.
Glasgow used to revel in the title of the second city of the empire.
Nevertheless, your evidence shows that corporation tax is one of the more volatile taxes.
We were committed to ensuring council tax stability in Scotland for the next four years.
We just need some trees to be clipped.
On a point of order.
It is just a source of revenue, albeit a very volatile one.
We understand the business sectors needs and businesses understand what local government is about.
Can we move on to the witnesses from Age Concern.
Many members talked about the important issue of housing.
We have quite a gentle bunch.
Let us get back to something a bit more democratic than initiatives of that sort.
I ask the Executive to keep it that way.
I have a final question on anti avoidance measures.
When the commission started, the answer seemed to be that local government equals local democracy.
I am always interested in innovative ideas.
There needs to be a focus on outcomes, rather than simply on inputs.
The Government must take a better look at what is happening.
It is a simple and straightforward measure.
My question is on tax avoidance.
The possibility of exploring further Edinburghs link, rather than Glasgows, has been well publicised.
They need to be accurate and should include information about when individuals are repeatedly searched.
I have listened with interest to the detail that she has presented this morning.
Faith and politics cannot be kept apart.
I will finish with another plea for capital city funding.
I was arguing for specific grants.
The national insurance fund stands wholly, or very largely, outside that structure.
There are also opportunities for translators and people who work for public agencies.
So you are in academics for independence.
That additional funding would need to be demonstrated and quantified through practice.
In the longer term, the Liberal Democrats would go further by introducing local income tax.
It certainly paints a brighter picture for the company concerned.
That is hard for the public to understand.
We need a peoples Europe where all communities are listened to and involved.
Thank you for inviting us to give evidence.
Nor does it prevent them from focusing on their own priorities.
I agree whole heartedly with what Margaret Smith said about early intervention and continued support.
I want to put a scenario to you.
You can be part of a Scottish team and part of a British team.
The system is all about success and failure at the moment.
I know that my colleague the Minister for Housing and Transport has raised that issue.
However, those barriers cannot be used by horses.
I am sure that members will be familiar with that scenario.
It is not a local tax, but I am saying more than that.
This is my first rotten fruit and vegetables debate.
We must now concentrate on those people.
We have talked a bit about simplifying the tax regime in Scotland.
I think that all MSPs would support that sentiment.
The Executive will not join him in that gamble.
Thank you for that clarification.
That is the key problem.
That confirmed, perhaps, what we expected, but more surprising was the evidence from transport professors.
We need a border inspection post in Scotland.
She checked out her receipts and went to the councils office.
We must develop peoples different aptitudes.
A neat piece of mathematics describes the present situation  it is called catastrophe maths.
The next item of business is a statement by John Swinney on climate change.
We have consistently treated local government fairly.
Angela Constance and many others referred to the Baby P case.
There needs to be a measure of independence about such things.
There is also the issue of tax competition.
We should focus on what youngsters can do.
Is that correct Is it an accurate reflection of your research.
That is fundamental, and it lies at the heart of all this.
Even this week, there have been encouraging signs of vitality.
Does that make it clear enough to Mr McLetchie.
The replies from the Inland Revenue have said that such payments are indeed taxable.
We have phoned them and are waiting to hear back.
Constitutional law has wrestled with those issues over decades and centuries.
I have pushed strongly and positively the working groups priorities.
They are institutionalised, they decline and they are reassessed.
For example, in America there has been considerable fiscal flight between states.
The submission from the Association of Directors of Social Work was unfortunate.
A significant proportion of older people in Scotland would find that hugely beneficial.
However, I am delighted to hear about the memo of understanding that has been agreed.
That is something that the company has given serious attention to.
The local government finance review committee had a lot of discussion about what should happen.
I turn to the impact on poverty.
I firmly believe that we can learn a lot from listening to young people.
The changes that have been made to clarify and tighten up the code are improvements.
The other is commercial substance, which will be closely connected to incorporation as a consideration.
However, such standards are an important step toward ensuring that that standing is restored.
As for wealth, using local produce has economic benefits.
If members have not received those, please indicate.
As Liam Kerr said, the improved passenger experience will be much welcomed.
We can certainly bring forward more detail on that.
Members will be aware that the police complaints system in Scotland is under review.
The UK Government has taken what you call a hypothetical scenario.
Perhaps we can write to you and you can respond.
No, nothing is specifically excluded.
It would depend on what replaced APD.
So do we throw the bill out because too many people would benefit from it.
Patients deserve more than that.
That is a UK statistic.
Do you have a comment on that.
However, do not test me too much.
We heard much evidence on that subject, particularly from Dougald Middleton from Ernst & Young.
Keith Brown also made that extremely important point.
Are you saying that that would be a strong argument for independence.
That system is common across the world.
Please wind it up now.
I do not have a current business.
We look forward to more supportive action in the future.
Those people had delayed discharges or were bedblockers through no fault of their own.
Mr Swinneys arguments against our proposal do not add up.
That is the only lesson that I can take from the low attendance.
I welcome the opportunity to address that question.
It has to justify the number with the sort of analysis that I have mentioned.
I will briefly raise two other issues.
The committees report raised the big issue of council tax revaluation.
The fear went out of the patient when they got him into hospital.
Rather than focus on the negative, we want to move forward positively.
There was clear agreement across the chamber on those policies.
That information exists for all to see.
They expect the system to provide children with the skills to think and learn.
The taxes go out of phase, which is exactly what is wanted.
I have nothing to declare, convener.
Decisions about council tax levels are a matter for each council.
The SNP position is a disgrace and an irrelevance and is illogical and irrational.
That is only common sense.
It then goes on to say why social work should stay in its silo.
She agreed and said that the child was very numerate and artistic.
You should be closing now, minister.
Will you expand on them and on why you agree with them.
There are two ideal types, which do not exist in real countries.
We have been presented with one set of rates for the service tax.
On day one, we have got the First Minister talking independence.
We believe that the tax and benefits system should be devolved.
Could you give us even a range of figures that we might be talking about.
We decided to focus on being more targeted in our community planning.
We have not got close to the proper technical consideration of all the different possibilities.
I am not absolutely sure that I understand the question.
The whole basis is totally flawed.
The whole thing is a total, complete mess.
There is no private obstacle to the renewal of the local community.
Will he address that point.
I congratulate Tommy Sheridan on his bill.
There will be one constituency supplementary.
That is still a fundamental part of the regime.
Everybody is happy with that.
So the objective behind the proposal is to cut spending on the health service.
I thank Alex Neil for his best wishes.
That is entirely laudable and we committed to it in our manifesto.
That feeds into whether we have clarity on the minimum necessary service.
I must admit that I am not a huge expert on all this.
I also thank Stephen Imrie, the clerk, and his colleagues in the committee office.
I, too, congratulate Mr Hume on securing a debate on an important issue.
In that regard, it is appropriate that the ministers amendments should be supported.
It was a one earner household.
By tax standards, VAT is not particularly volatile.
Indeed, but there are a number of ways in which to get money.
We did a survey on the issue fairly recently.
I am just trying to tease out a view.
After all, the tax is a hugely significant part of what they are about.
We will hear more about that at the back end of this year.
Universities, colleges and training are also relevant.
The holy grail is out there somewhere.
I agree, and that is an important issue for us.
You said at the outset that I had submitted a number of written comments.
I am sure that this will be modelled over the years to come.
You could use that in the way that you wanted.
I am comfortable with that.
Different sides reacted in different ways.
Hugh Henry is right to say that we must work together.
Our economy needs to change.
Ultimately, there will be new sets of rules that businesses will have to pick up.
That crushing indictment can be further unpicked to highlight some of the bills problems.
I mentioned the SFA and the tartan army.
I am in charge of mental health services for the whole of Ayrshire and Arran.
However, I simply see no appetite to make that sort of change.
The petition asks a question that should be answered.
As members know, the Executive has ruled out the proposal on business rates.
A covering note has been circulated with the petition.
It has been heavily criticised.
You obviously have concerns that current legislation allows too much wriggle room.
Do you believe that that is a temporary phenomenon that will re emerge after September.
Buggies can get on the trains no problem.
Okay, comrades, our next witnesses are from West Lothian Council.
By definition, if they were not helpful, you would not do them.
That is an excellent model to ensure that change is driven.
There are lots of other categories of the population that have low incomes.
The issue of access out of hours can be dealt with in the contract.
I thank the Deputy First Minister for prior sight of her statement.
I am struggling to think what kind of evidence you want.
Having opened up the issue, I will pass it to Brenda Campbell.
A range of people work with looked after children and care leavers.
Indeed, I see it now  he will be happy in his retirement.
By comparison, our Nordic neighbours tend to fare better in that area.
I welcome him to the committee.
On a personal level, I make my own contribution to that every week.
The same thing is being said at Westminster.
Many factors determine whether economies such as the Irish economy are competitive.
I draw attention to the soft skills study, to which Fiona Hyslop referred.
It is obvious that the east end areas in those cities have been particular beneficiaries.
Why are they here They are here because they like the lifestyle.
I can maybe ask somebody else about that.
I thought that I had mentioned it.
I invite Michael Matheson to respond to the debate.
There have been developments since then.
There should also be a trust.
We need much more than warm words.
A financial control is being used obliquely to drive councils in a particular direction.
It provides a stable source of revenue for local government.
Last week, the commission on strengthening local democracy in Scotland published its interim report.
You could do that with a number of things.
I am pleased that you have referred to the redistribution of wealth.
The situation might escalate and there would be a haggle.
Dundee and Orkney and so on have made cases.
As I said, the Executive is simply following a long tradition.
The analogy is with the current situation in local authorities.
We have put in place arrangements for such planning at national, regional and local level.
That reflects an overly simplistic view of where we are.
I hope that she is a member of the BDA.
It is a shame that Mr Fraser takes the opposite view.
We need to be clear about why what we decide today is important.
I invite Professor Holtham to comment on two points that he makes in his submission.
Others allude to speculation, and some talk about creating disease barriers.
The minister mentioned deprived areas.
I see the Scottish service tax as a variation of local income tax.
For a considerable part of that time, Hugh Henry was the committees convener.
Members who wish to vote for Margo MacDonald should vote yes now.
The UK should not be involved in the complexities of running separation of taxation.
I support the passing of the bill.
He has missed the fulsome praise that I gave him earlier.
Can you talk us through why that might be the case.
That is an interesting question.
Once again, we are the lead committee.
The committee has a role in the process now.
I am sorry, but I need to understand where your three year concept comes from.
The appointment and removal provisions will also serve to underpin the independence of the post.
There is a mechanism for review.
One other element is the cost of the tax tribunal.
Dr Gillan, I share your passion about minimum unit pricing and the problem of alcohol.
The figure has been there since December.
Interestingly, I have another quotation of his that is not quite so supportive.
We could address that, too.
I think that there would be an appetite for cutting through a lot of that.
You can double the numbers for Scotland.
There was also an issue about how those plans would connect with other planning requirements.
We have two panels of witnesses this morning.
I do not have a particularly strong view about whether that has been terribly successful.
I want to be serious about this.
I will now turn from the global to the local.
However, we were not driven just by the need to be different from Westminster.
You would have to make it fair.
I have said that I will reflect on the points that Johann Lamont raised.
As we have heard, we now have a greater uptake of salmon.
The UK Government supported Spain and not Scotland.
I therefore question whether your analogy is appropriate.
However, it is much harder in the case of the tax base per head.
As far as council tax benefit is concerned, it is quite unfairly distributed in Scotland.
The short answer is no.
We need to footnote that.
We are in negotiation with the two finalists on quotes this week.
I think that it is reasonably clear.
There is no single magic bullet that will solve the problem.
That is the right way forward.
We must not lose sight of that.
It seems to me that the already cumbersome bureaucracy that surrounds fish farming will increase.
This is where the issue of escapees comes in.
I apologise if my voice is not as loud as it usually is.
When he put forward his tax proposals, Tommy Sheridan questioned the Liberal Democrats position.
Tracking people is more expensive than tracking houses.
In Orkney, we are perhaps blessed more than most.
You have spoken about the process.
She also said that she did not envisage intervening.
We felt that it is entirely appropriate that Scotland should be able to borrow appropriately.
It has certainly avoided two world wars by being an independent state, has it not.
That has always been the case and it will continue to be the case.
Another more controversial proposition is that local authorities have created a dependency culture.
The arrangements for that are the subject of an agreement among all the parties.
I make it clear that we are tight for time.
I remember once saying Carlisle or bust in the chamber.
What he did seemed to me to be no more than a political stunt.
As Irene Oldfather said, the report is intended to stimulate further discussion.
I was going to ask the minister what he is going to do about it.
That is wrong, and the thrust of my motion is that we should change that.
That is a matter that will require further discussion between ourselves and the producer organisations.
If one is unsuccessful, the list of special circumstances remains relatively short.
What I found very surprising was that the Debt Management Office is extremely accommodating.
We will report annually and we will consider the trend over the five year period.
There is a lot of stealth around.
I am passionate about the development of cycling opportunities, active travel and integrated public transport.
What the Scottish Government publishes is not our responsibility.
The committee found the issue of revenue grant distribution especially complex.
That is where gains come in.
It is an avenue worth exploring.
I am pleased to see him here.
We have done no precise forecasting on the direct impact of the bill on jobs.
Standards and PublicAppointments Committee	Mike Rumbles.
Since he published those detailed proposals, nobody has laid a finger on them.
The fact is that these corporations are holding us to ransom.
I apologise for my Gaelic.
However, as I said, I do not have direct evidence on doctors.
I hope that members will agree with that approach.
The test is not only whether Scottish young people will benefit.
Will the minister guarantee to protect the change fund and the carers element of it.
The bill sets out a robust package that is right for Scotland.
For a start, we completely overhauled our structures.
There are only three or four large taxes, of which income tax is one.
It is an international group.
There is particular value in training dentists in Scotland.
Although we know the answer to that one.
We will move on to grant reduction.
I recognise that there are variations in different parts of the country.
It seems to me that it is overly beneficial for the better off in society.
Rather than use the phrase no agreed, we should refer to a basket of definitions.
They expect their councillor to speak for them, irrespective of that distinction.
The reply addresses all three points raised in the petition.
That is something that we would need to look into and discuss.
I am slightly confused about this because that is not what I had hitherto understood.
Some members have already indicated that they want to come in.
I want to comment on the communication side of what has been said.
Halls are vital to communities.
Equestrian recreation is important for Scotlands tourism economy.
We cannot afford to bury our heads in the sand.
That leads to completely different corporation tax figures charged in the different countries.
Therefore, the outcomes for children and families are good.
It came up from other professional groups, too.
The committee is interested in and concerned about voter turnout in local elections.
A local income tax could take into account such circumstances and therefore be fairer.
Such research has potential, but it could be taken a stage further.
I understood that there may be an increase.
Does that answer your question.
The revenues of at least eight different taxes are shared between state and local governments.
You described the recent changes as the Lamborghini reforms.
Mr Reid also urges the Executive to publish guidance on the matter.
That is our remaining outstanding significant issue with the passage of the bill.
That must be championed and celebrated.
They introduce indexation, which by definition causes problems.
You talk about deprivation being taken into account with the GAEs.
We are in a time of limited resources.
I ask both of you to wind up this discussion.
On average, it would be whatever the corporation tax is now.
It is partly that we are where we are.
We are also confident that the project is financially and educationally sustainable.
You will get the money in the forecast.
In its ranking, we come just above Mexico.
It is an interesting suggestion and I am trying to think of examples.
We have no control over pensions, the minimum wage, social security benefits or economic decisions.
No serious person actually believes that to be the case.
Therefore, the terms PFI and PPP are not synonymous.
I want to make some progress because we are short of time.
It would certainly affect the dialogue.
What we should not be is fearful, nor should we be cowed.
It can be presented as local authority grant, but it is not really that.
We must make the system more efficient.
That is the democratic process.
Ghost entries may be only the tip of the iceberg.
Obviously, the Burt committee has its work cut out.
]Do you stand by those words.
I was aware of the question.
I am happy to reconvene the meeting.
This has been an important debate about the recent international talks.
The industry also makes a worldwide contribution.
I cannot understand what else you hope to get from the register.
Okay, we will do so.
We will meet again next Tuesday in private.
Will Rhona Brankin give way.
We are not going to agree on the matter, so we should move on.
We will have to do quite a lot.
They have been proven to be wrong.
It has taken the First Minister a long time to waken up to that.
What are you going to do about it, minister.
I welcome the initiative that Glasgow City Council has shown in providing for that.
Its argument in favour of its proposal is one of fairness.
It was not always like that.
I hope that many members agree that it is the key to the languages survival.
We followed that with the council tax.
Even the reports author said that itdidnt get to the bottom of every aspect.
However, it may cause distortion.
Indeed, we stood up for the Scotch whisky industry in that context and were influential.
A climate of mutual respect among all stakeholders, and that includes the young people.
My ministerial colleagues and I are clear about the scale of the challenge ahead.
As Robert Brown said, it is of national significance.
Horses are reluctant to step on people and we are a responsible group of people.
For every local authority that is flourishing, others are not.
Thank you for the welcome and for your kind words about Murray Tosh.
That is a very strong message to the minister.
What are the background to and thought processes behind that structure.
We want the Executive to do that.
One is inside the park.
We have group audits in the private sector.
Welcome to you all and thank you for coming along this morning.
I do not want to get down to too much detail.
It is interesting that there might be an effect that the SSP would welcome.
By and large, that will is there.
Some of the things that you have said have certainly depressed me.
Local authorities cannot accommodate all children in their area.
The local taxation base is too low.
Let us go back to Stirling economics.
Our submission advocates a simplification of the grant distribution arrangements.
I want to touch on capital borrowing.
Is that a sound basis for legislation.
We hope that that could be done with minimum modification.
Sometimes that is not easy to quantify.
I have found your paper and the discussion to be extremely thought provoking.
Neither of us is saying anything about that.
The issue of people on smaller incomes certainly arose.
That may have happened a couple of years ago in Scotland.
If they are not updated, they will put at risk the systems credibility.
Put that way, you could.
We need to take account of that.
Provision exists for the national language plan to be reviewed on a five yearly basis.
Orkney fishermen say that they are having difficulty selling cooked partans.
As he said, the sentiments in the petition are repeated throughout the country.
All those variables can have a big impact on the revenues that are raised.
Yes, I know, but the principles are fundamental to how we will go about it.
It was true then, and it is true today.
And that would contribute to improving growth or counteracting any reduction in growth.
However, he actually says little.
It is a step forward.
The way in which the level of tax would be determined sounds very arbitrary.
I do not support the idea and I never have.
We included in our report figures both with and without council tax benefit.
I have a couple of points on income tax.
Clearly, that is an attempt to show the policy in the best possible light.
I know that I do not want to.
That is another broken promise.
That is an example of building houses but not building communities.
Even the Tories have abandoned that policy.
Let us take the example of a school.
I thank you all very much for coming along and helping the committee.
The DWP pays the money to offset the cost of that to the local authorities.
What point are you making about the ECHR.
It is true that there are slight differences in the age profile.
I also believe that a line should be drawn in respect of smacking young children.
Until we get rid of that view, there will always be difficulties.
It went to pot two years ago, therefore we are not really committed to it.
Thank you for giving us the opportunity to present our project to the committee.
We are not arguing that there should not be a linkage.
Perhaps the members point is misplaced.
The impact of that on such adults lives is huge.
What are the mechanisms through which it could do so.
I want to avoid getting into a debate on that.
The same applies with LBTT.
We are all aware of the problems with access to NHS dental services.
Before we move on, let me give you three brief quotations.
Neil Findlay was right to say that it was the biggest budget loser.
As I said, the system is a bit of a guddle.
Should we treat that claim with suspicion.
A similar question goes to SEPA.
Is the Deputy First Minister seriously saying that she is satisfied with the report.
We need to consider solutions from other areas.
The local vote would take place, and there would be a national vote.
I have a question about your basic principles of local taxation.
There seems to be quite a lot of confusion about the local grant system.
I am pleased to note that that recommendation has been accepted.
I now dismiss the official reporters.
It seemed a good idea and, at the time, I believed him.
I propose to ensure that we mainstream Gaelic medium education in the education system.
The Mirrlees report has already been mentioned.
Why not use the total tax base.
How is the figure now so much bigger than it was.
The drop in England is even bigger than the drop in Scotland.
Other variables have been stripped out.
I am in the same position.
I remember that suggestion from your submission.
That is my main point.
That is a crucial point.
Well, if we cannot get you, we will have a fight with the Finance Committee.
Is the question directed to me at revenue Scotland.
The Deputy First Minister mentioned that, and I entirely endorse what he said.
We would be happy to do that if it would be helpful to the committee.
I agree with your point.
It is a very hypothetical question.
It costs more to provide a skill base in rural areas.
As Eleanor Emberson said, we think that the extra money will pay for itself.
The availability of a respectable and appropriate level of funding from other sources is another.
The basket of measures would help.
I see the reference in your submission now, but you spoke quickly.
Obviously, we are not drafting the legislation, but we are feeding into it.
Several members have spoken about that.
A more important issue is what can be done.
The critique that is before the committee is professional, sound and robust.
We have avoided compulsory redundancies and we are looking at measures on low pay.
That situation has arisen for several reasons.
I would want to encourage and continue that trend, in Highland and elsewhere.
What you had to say was very interesting.
The problems do not end there.
There is certainly a perception that that has been the case.
How would you address the cries for help of those local authorities.
However, it is for the commissioner to consider whether a complaint warrants full investigation.
This is one of those debates in which we are all agreed.
It is right to start with personal income tax.
Their position could be compromised.
Will he repeat his comment.
You have four minutes, Ms MacDonald.
By definition, an SME has a small percentage of the available market.
Am I right to say that the level would vary.
You might want to check whether there is any evidence outside of those papers.
When people see such requests being used, they might catch on.
Public sector and private sector organisations in different parts of the world were affected.
It is about how you acquire the skills.
Such things would come through as Barnett changes.
I am inviting you to tell us how you would amend the Scotland Bill.
I would own no house, so I would pay no tax.
Schools can operate better as part of our democracy.
We will pick up further interventions in Peter Peacocks closing speech.
We need an agreement to put in place that policy.
The sensitivity analysis was carried out in accordance with the normal approach.
I accept absolutely that it must make the right choices.
I remind members that we are still in public session.
Would Richard Baker and Joan McAlpine please stop squabbling in the corner.
The formula is simple and you do not even have to worry about it.
followed by	First Minister Statement  The Council of Economic Advisers.
Companies have to keep separate accounts of taxable profits.
When algebra says one thing, it is very difficult to disagree with it.
The SSBA was not quite so philosophical with our members.
The devil, therefore, is in the delivery.
However, one factor may be mindset.
She was the only SNP member who made serious points about the European debate.
Indeed, the same holds true for all of these taxes.
I am in general agreement.
I congratulate the minister on his work at Doha.
I am not sure that the independent contractor system is delivering for the NHS.
Speeches should be kept to a tight four minutes, please.
Scottish footballers think that having a Scottish football team is appropriate.
I raise the point because I think that it could come up as an issue.
Those steps must be at the heart of the updated strategic framework.
Willie Coffey made an excellent maiden speech.
France has held regional meetings.
Does the minister think that that is justifiable.
I cannot see companies investing unless there is a rationale to do so.
That is not a bureaucratic requirement but a flexible and living one.
I do not think that all learning or all good thinking should be certificated.
We have, for example, little positive management of our physical assets.
Not all the witnesses have submitted written evidence and they may want to say something.
That is probably a question for the minister, rather than for me.
Significantly, that proportion was greater in general dental practice.
It is their responsibility to make the decisions.
Time is very tight in the debate.
I understand that there are problems, however.
Scottish Borders Council also has balances at its disposal.
However, again, my message is that people should be vigilant but not alarmed.
That is a separate issue.
You make a good point.
You could still make it a brief question, Mr Smith.
For that reason, I welcome the bill.
That is exactly what we will now concentrate on.
However, that is no reason why we cannot raise the matter with the Executive again.
We should talk about people and in terms that people understand.
The huge numbers that are there to deter do not reduce crime.
I will also try to adhere to that timescale.
Routine drudgery is no longer necessary.
Whatever changes you make to it, it will still be regressive.
I cannot claim that there are specific items that would do that.
I want to say a few words about accountability.
It is worth thinking about that in the current context.
You could say that income tax is proportionate because it is related to individual incomes.
It is important to get the system correct.
We currently have a good performance record on our IT.
The historic basis is kept and stability is built into the system.
Families who need support will be identified early and supported to care for their children.
However, the motion is not short sighted but visionary.
So you do not have any evidence.
This year, we benefited enormously from taking advantage of the enhanced photographic evidence.
That means that we have to trust teachers judgment.
There will be several hundred million pounds less in the Scottish economy.
It is about where that emotion interacts with personal wellbeing and financial wellbeing.
I do not want to be repetitive, but teaching is about values, relationships and attitudes.
I really have to get through some detail.
I think that it is too early in the day to do that.
I just wanted to get that clarification on the record.
I am normally the only young person at such meetings, but that has changed.
Costs would arise in many different areas.
The closer London gets to the negotiating table, the further Scotland is from its mind.
I hope that that will not happen.
Professor Trench, you equate a no vote with a rejection of full fiscal autonomy.
It would then be a matter of public knowledge that we had qualified.
We must get rid of the council tax and adopt a fairer local income tax.
I now open up the session to my colleagues.
I turn to the sin taxes.
Let me move on to issues that you do know about.
Anything else is, to be honest with you, a web of deceit.
I would like to continue the constructive tone.
He is obviously doing a very good job.
Your question betrays a common misapprehension.
We will continue to do that.
I congratulate Mr Peacock warmly on his decision, precision and concision.
I will give the committee the Executives response.
That balance must be taken into consideration.
That must be something that we welcome and encourage.
The reputation of our aquaculture sector is good, but it is also vulnerable.
We do not rule out PPP projects and would consider them in the appropriate circumstances.
It rightly feels that it can do something.
I would not go as far as to choose the bands in Scotland right now.
I ask them to be fairly quick.
I know what you mean, but that would not be another LCM.
Therefore, we are in a rather unique situation.
The report also states that the bill would harm the Scottish economy.
We must learn from that experience and engage effectively.
However, let us also consider the proportionality of stop and search.
I hope that more attention can be paid to some of those other designations.
The British Computer Society has produced a number of leaders briefings and strategy documents.
Of course the opposite will exist, too.
France, Germany and Italy make up three of Scotlands top five export markets.
That was Fred Harrisons point.
Part of our amendment addresses that situation.
Am I being naive about that.
The governance of HMRC is appropriately set out.
I am looking forward to that.
The money that we spend on third sector organisations should impact similarly.
I am talking about principles at the moment, and not necessarily the Scottish service tax.
Work continues, and we hope that that will not be the case.
She simply did not support the Scottish position.
I regularly travel up to Inverness and Aberdeen by train.
I was not convinced that there was any need for reorganisation when it took place.
followed by	Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party Debate on Community Care.
Advertising the project over a longer period of time costs less per annum.
There is a lack of training for people and an inability to get into work.
So, basically you do not know.
That, not the recession, is the big issue.
Whatever national priorities we agree, they should not be central priorities.
I would not have any great unease about that if those were your findings.
The bill combines two issues that have been missed for a considerable time.
However, it is not all just about recognising the quality of that argument per se.
We will include the phrase in many places.
That work is already under way.
Yes, we need that analysis.
I hope that you will welcome that.
We could debate that point for a long time.
I want to clarify some matters with Derek Scott before he finishes his evidence.
There was an exploratory consultation and then a consultation on a draft bill.
There were risks with the Barnett formula, but they were well known and well established.
We flagged that up as an issue of concern.
Mr Muldoon should apologise to Mr Swinney for totally misrepresenting the SNP position.
I just do not believe it.
If it is not, as it were, adequately cherished, it could very well disappear.
All those measures will contribute to tackling obesity.
It would be a significant contribution if we were able to sort that out.
Accessibility strategies will only ever be as good as their implementation.
That would be difficult to assess.
Scotland, England and Wales have got this right.
There are equalisation issues at UK level and within the UK.
That recommendation was not taken on board in the bill, either.
Lifelong learning is a case in point.
That is the reality of the situation.
Extra work will also be involved in going out to look for more sites.
Indeed, we are changing entry qualifications to allow that to happen.
I am not an expert in local government finance but a chartered surveyor.
Many local authorities throughout Scotland are already bringing forward proposals for school buildings.
As she quite rightly said, it is for the business bureau to determine business.
The first is about the amendment to eligibility for continuing care.
That is the point that Iain Smith is trying to get over.
Gaelic is an official language of Scotland commanding equal respect to English.
There has been a lot of talk and concentration on the tax rate.
We are in the early stages of the discussions.
The Government has zero tolerance of escapes.
We cannot continue to postpone decisions on these matters.
That is more of a play on words than a reality.
That is another matter entirely.
The Council of Economic Advisers was appointed last month and will meet in January.
If those people spend a lot of their money, they will spend it in Tesco.
I am glad to say that planning fees are being normalised.
I think that that shows significant progress.
Those countries are heavily economically integrated with their larger partners.
The combination of a number of factors has allowed progress to be made.
Further to that point of order, Presiding Officer.
As for our mother earth, we all talk about climate change daily.
You make a comparison there.
I thank both witnesses for coming along to give us the benefit of their knowledge.
Someone has to collect that tax and presumably those are the only two options.
It is important that all those advances are not lost.
That is how it would work.
There is much more to do.
This is a proud day for the Scottish Parliament.
The fairest form of tax is a local income tax.
As portfolio managers will tell you, diversifying the income base minimises risk.
I will deal with local income tax shortly.
Those are the kind of equations that companies look at.
There was so much noise, Presiding Officer.
The Poverty Alliance is very concerned about local democracy.
That petition is in the pipeline and will be before us shortly.
That is not true of the sectors in Scotland that I just talked about.
A direct rail link to the airport would have incredible economic benefits for Fife.
Will the member taken an intervention.
As that ends our questions, I thank Professor Bell very much for his evidence.
Local authorities should have more borrowing powers.
That is a fairly widely accepted analysis.
We should try to maximise opportunities for our sportsmen and sportswomen.
It is high time that the stagnation ended.
The numbers are not impossible either to visualise or to target effectively.
That research might better inform your member councils.
That is where I am coming from.
There is no way that the statistics can do that.
Its staffs views, experience, expertise and aspirations should be addressed with care and sympathy.
I welcome the dental hygienists and therapists who are coming through the colleges.
The bill would foster tax evasion and would even encourage the black economy.
Thank you for the comprehensive answers that you have given today.
That dual character makes it rather difficult to characterise it.
We have had a good explanation of the issues around the financial powers.
How do you see those themes.
It is completely up to them.
As horses get older, they get arthritis and tarmac is not good for them.
I think that people already understand these things.
You can change a lot of policies without any influence from Westminster.
I will say something similar to what Mr Kelly said.
I would like to finish off that point.
The French and Germans have complained that their social charges are too high.
I really do not think that compliance costs are a big issue.
We believe that the council tax penalises those who can least afford to pay.
This Government will not follow the same route.
All I can say is that I have not found any.
I just want to get the terms of the discussion correct.
Does that have anything to do with the inquiry.
The technical note clearly sets out that in different years, there are different effects.
Of course, the other associated issue is the structure of the Scottish economy.
We must have change and we must have democracy.
In closing, I make a final point on commencement.
It is a case of in the door, out the door.
It might not be as easy to think of other clearer examples.
The bad news, though, is that that will not be retrospective.
We recognise the significant personal challenge that it must have been to make that contribution.
Perhaps he needs some performance training before he comes back to the chamber.
That first come, first served policy is an outdated way of approaching sustainable travel.
It is not as though we have a fantastic benefit or provision at the moment.
I agree with Iain Gray that Charlie Gordon made an excellent speech.
That is the deflationary effect of the proposed scheme.
However, there is a real problem and that is why the debate is so important.
We do plenty of difficult things in life.
I do not know how that is handled.
I, too, support the report that is before us today.
That reflects some of the evidence that we have received.
I am glad to uphold that precedent with your permission, Presiding Officer.
Will you explain that crossover point to me.
They might do that through a company, for example.
On the other hand, the food and drink industry and the tourism industry are fragmented.
How does Iain Smith feel about having such a football team.
The full infrastructure investment plan makes a very interesting read if members like fairy stories.
I make no apology for doing that.
However, I know of cases in which that has not happened.
A corporation tax cut would have the same impact on individuals.
That happens with the Barnett formula.
We cannot see how such a grant would be meaningful.
Many people have been concerned about the lack of public debate.
We have an obligation to tackle the problems.
We must all address that situation.
Sometimes, we want simple things.
That process is likely to be replicated, assuming a no vote in September.
I am happy with that answer.
Tommy Sheridans example would work if the couple lived in a band D house.
I am an economist who has worked a lot on tax.
We can see the opportunities that are close to us.
Last word on the subject.
That needs not to be true if the industry is to go forward.
It is all too easy to buy kit somewhere and move it somewhere else.
There will of course be errors.
If we set a limit, that will confine the process and box it in.
It is stipulated that there must be a post office every two miles.
Some of those new skills are in areas such as computing, engineering and science.
I will ask about the revenue compensation that Mr Kelly identified.
This is our opportunity to say, Vive la différence.
I am grateful to you, Presiding Officer.
Well, let us say that we are in the review period.
However, we need to keep the keys secret and change them frequently.
I cannot remember exactly when it was due, but it must be pretty soon.
We do not have borrowing powers at the moment.
We are waiting for a report.
I will leave aside the tax rate for a moment and consider pensions.
We could talk about a veto power or, at the other extreme, an imposition power.
I was interested to hear Patricia Marwick quote Glen Bramley in support.
In itself, that is not a substantial sum, but it all adds up.
Those are enormous impacts on individuals and on the economy.
Perhaps, though, I should be more careful with my words.
It is outrageous to hear the guffaws from the Opposition benches.
This Parliament has the power to abolish the council tax.
People have corporate social responsibility.
I commend the motion to Parliament.
Following Victoria Climbies death, the Laming report, among other things, focused on corporate parenting.
I apologise, Presiding Officer, for only asking questions, but time is short.
It sounds as if Mr Bird very much agrees with what they said.
I am not sure that I completely follow your question.
That is neither democratic nor accountable, which is why we must redress the balance.
I understand that Councillor Walsh will speak for a couple of minutes.
No, I totally disagree with you.
It would depend on what proportion of that tax was devolved.
There has been some, but not much.
That is not so much about autonomy, but the question can be answered quite easily.
The Conservatives welcome the motion warmly.
We will move further away from it.
Okay comrades, now that we have had a break we will continue our long meeting.
You could have whatever procedure you want to give you comfort.
Let us hear no more of it.
It has to be up front and in time.
We must take that long term vision.
I believe that the three measures that I have proposed today are modest and achievable.
We look forward to the long awaited ferries review.
Much economic and social progress has been inspired by European co operation.
No one doubts that the product of Scottish salmon farming is of high quality.
The policy is attracting growing interest.
I am disappointed that you will not give that clarity to the Scottish people.
Such decisions are made by locally elected councillors.
Their input has been invaluable.
It is therefore the best basis for local authority taxation.
If those issues are agreed between the two parties, that could be done quite quickly.
It is about a framework.
I very much welcome the fact that the Liberal Democrats intend to do so, too.
Glasgow airport is Scotlands premier airport.
We, as an industry, will then have to live with the consequences.
The Law Society is quite clear that unacceptable avoidance should be stamped out.
As I state in the next sentence, some steps can be delivered relatively quickly.
I want clarification from the minister.
Many members focused on planning and sites.
You would expect, but you do not always get.
The legislation that is being proposed demands day counts.
Sarah Boyack is right  the existing housing stock is an issue.
In the first place, education is about personal growth.
However, in the course of taking evidence, issues arose around those principles implementation in practice.
I will stop it if Mr Calman stops it.
The third reason is revenue instability.
We have heard some other interesting points about the cost of the plan.
Really, that is a matter for us to discuss with the Scottish Government.
It thought that it could do so efficiently.
I congratulate Alasdair Allan on securing this debate.
The danger is that we attribute all the financial tightening to the recession.
The bill is flawed and would not meet its aims and objectives.
It is nice to see you.
I invite members to support the work that we are undertaking.
After that, members will ask questions.
I have no immediate plans for a formal meeting with the Prime Minister.
It explored that before the latest change.
Compartmentalising a small area of the country would not necessarily benefit the whole country.
In effect, local government finance is still ring fenced.
It is good to consider the question in those terms.
It seems to be providing slogans about how exciting broadband is.
I pay tribute to Paul Wheelhouse for playing what was clearly a constructive role.
I do not think that there is.
I am delighted to be the first speaker, in that case.
These divergences are now tripping over a certain degree.
That is a grim legacy.
It would also be interesting to hear the ministers views on planning fees.
The members idea is a good one and I am happy to consider it.
That has been stated so often that one loses count.
It is vital that we do that.
What you say is true of the interim arrangement.
I last met the committee during the consultation on the draft codes.
The SWA claims that the motion is short sighted.
As usual, I will start the questioning process.
That is a fair point.
The Scottish Government produced the proposal on corporation tax for Scotland.
I will illustrate the point with a contemporary issue.
Those problems have led to some amazing situations.
The story is even bigger and more complicated than has been suggested.
Planning GAE, for example, is distributed on the basis of expenditure by individual councils.
That has implications for a range of areas, including this one.
We can argue about whether it is big enough or small enough.
I was just being a little cautious.
We have heard talk of consensus and working together.
The English model seems to be heading towards seven years.
Earlier, I referred to undiscovered theft.
The points that members, particularly Hugh Henry, have made on that are really about resourcing.
The word government is mentioned only in conjunction with local government.
That will provide the basis for driving delivery.
I want to ask a final question before I let you in.
That option is the route forward.
I do not think that such a proposal was in the original commission report.
We would need to take steps to counter profit shifting as much as we could.
There is no evidence whatever of tax competition in the longer term.
I take on board fully the point that implementation is important.
I will be very brief.
In Edinburgh and elsewhere, the bulk of resources has to go into affordable rented housing.
The proposed removal procedures will also provide security of tenure, thus augmenting the commissioners independence.
That has been an advantage of the discretion that Scotland currently possesses.
Long term financial planning is an issue.
I am not saying that local government should not provide those functions.
Today, we take pride in educating huge numbers of pupils through the medium of Gaelic.
I know that HMRC constantly has a problem making such decisions.
] You have to be quite careful.
I want to echo what Lynn Brown has said about budget strategy.
My question follows on from what Stewart Maxwell said.
Mr Sheridans policy memorandum assumes that assessment is based on an individuals income.
Teachers and, in turn, parents are required to conform.
The point is that, in effect, higher earners generate more revenue for the Scottish Government.
We believe that grant distribution must be causing that problem.
There is now more pressure for distribution to be equitable.
Tax motivated incorporation and profit shifting have to be taken into account.
Plans and targets are set out in our information management and technology strategy.
What is your definition of a very different rate.
Last time we had a major recession, I chaired a council committee in Edinburgh.
I will give an example to illustrate the reality of the situation.
I expect all boards to implement the outcomes as a matter of priority.
Finance and Public Services and Communities.
For now, however, the petitioners should get an answer.
Land and property taxes are the most appropriate taxes for local government finance.
The committee has that technical note.
I thank Mr and Mrs Cuthbert for their submission on the Crown Estate.
Many good speeches have been made, but the arguments about council tax banding are nonsensical.
It seems to me that that is a political question.
It is not really possible for a voluntary organisation to support one particular proposal.
He does not like the proposal because some rich pensioners would benefit.
We also have a dire shortage of Gaelic speaking teachers.
That seems to have been demonstrated statistically.
I welcome him to the meeting and invite him to make a short opening statement.
The Scottish Liberal Democrat and Labour coalition has addressed the issue.
The main policy thrust of the bill is to tackle poverty.
You were going on about welcoming more borrowing powers.
The dictionary definition of governance is the exercise of authority.
Only the Lib Dems portrayed it as such.
It depends on the figures that you are looking at.
Perhaps that is as good an answer as any.
Inverclydes children's champion scheme has now been operating for a year.
There was no groundswell of dissatisfaction with devolution.
However, it is easy to set targets but hard to meet them.
Could you please come to the point of order, Mr Macintosh.
I wonder how the Government in Scotland will measure and tackle such inequalities.
We hope that we have fulfilled that remit.
To some extent, that is true.
I did not read the letter.
I will follow up that point.
Today, schools emphasise different things and seek to develop different skills.
We cannot simply say, We prepared good teachers and pushed them into schools.
I have questions for the minister who is to sum up for the Executive.
I will have to come back to you on the exact figure.
I have taken two already.
I thank the minister for that somewhat short reply.
You are defending the council tax system.
I hope and believe that the bill will command support across the political spectrum.
There is a second rationale, which is this.
When I started this work, I knew very little about it.
It is really important for the country, whatever the constitutional position.
Where does the Scottish Parliament get its money from.
I am proud of Scotlands children's hearings system.
Some would argue that democratic systems of government are relatively new to Spain and Portugal.
That is absolutely all that we would need for collection.
Resignations should have occurred as a result of the Haringey case.
It is regressive and unfair.
They have lower attainment in many qualifications, and lower attainment in English and maths.
In any case, one could say that that is pretty much where Scotland is now.
It is a contentious issue, not only for councils but for the electorate.
No motion to annul the regulations has been lodged.
I entirely agree with the proposition that aggregation is not necessarily helpful.
That information is contained in the land register.
They are difficult to avoid and suitable for collection locally.
The third aspect is staff.
There is a balance to be struck.
That is enough consensus from me this morning.
People do not walk any more, not even as far as the bus stop.
In that context, I pay tribute to John Scott, as I have often done.
Secondly, the bill does not mention the role of the Inland Revenue.
You had better recall Mr Gauke and ask him that question.
I hope that those critical decisions will also be discussed in full in the committee.
Transport Scotland has just been created, which is a new quango.
A low carbon, sustainable society means a more equal society.
To me, that is starting to sound like creative avoidance.
Sadly, their frustration and anger are shared by far too many young couples across Scotland.
I must refer to a point that Paul Martin made.
The SPTCs submission talks about basic skills in drama, art and music.
Members of other parties made most of todays strong points.
Those policies should attract families into Glasgow and away from other areas.
You are supposed to be asking a question, Mr Doris.
I began by stating my view that, overall, housing supply in Scotland is insufficient.
These issues have been agreed by Cabinet and we are taking the process forward.
Like many members, I will start on a positive note.
You use the word accountability quite a lot in your written submission.
The SNP manifesto contained a specific commitment in that regard.
An order is proceeding through Parliament to establish a national park.
Our approach to the taxing of illegal dumping is new.
After this meeting, I will spend time with colleagues in revenue Scotland.
There are some big questions about that and some issues about transparency and data.
I will give two of many possible examples.
I am asking whether you think that that is a reasonable policy objective.
That is a challenge that we all have to address.
However, the toll is growing here and now.
Forward thinking nations such as Scotland must show leadership if we are to tackle it.
We support devolution of excise duty.
We have to choose a level somewhere.
It should be congratulated on that.
I will answer that in two respects.
However, the Executive has said that it will not.
The bill will also secure parents independent right to access their children's school records.
However, other measures are likely to take rather longer.
Communication development has had a knock on effect in schools.
The council tax is a progressive tax.
I am happy to give way now.
I confirm that it was given full consideration.
That is reflected in the report.
There are many things that the Government must do.
My understanding is that Highland Council is considering a range of options.
All those issues come together in big investment decisions.
Why do you not represent that view on the Scottish service tax.
Universities are now becoming more dependent on that income stream.
That software, and that updating, needs to be reviewed.
There is also the prospect of family dislocations and real conflict.
In answer to your direct question, our understanding is that council tax benefit is included.
I think that we need control over that.
The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Bill has three main purposes.
We must keep that in mind.
The saying was used to distinguish the concerns of the two tiers of government.
It is not always possible.
I am therefore confident that she will be determined to improve the legislation.
In loquacious conclusion, the debate has been positive and constructive.
Council tax stability was a key part of Scottish Labours recent election manifesto.
I am delighted about modern apprenticeships.
I still have all my own teeth, thankfully.
That brings me to the next point.
People will ask how the convention came up with the framework.
The member is falling into a trap that should not be there.
Members have a draft copy of our report.
Then there is wee Ephraim Belcher, a friend of the Tories.
That is my main concern.
In the present system, each authority is given a fixed limit on its consent level.
A similar project operated in the east of Scotland.
The petition covers a variety of things, which we have a duty to take seriously.
The negotiation could be completely straightforward.
We hope that it will be successful.
Indeed, we do not know what the Governments thoughts are on those responses.
This Government and many people throughout Scotland, including the tartan army, support the SFAs position.
That has not happened yet.
We pass those three tests satisfactorily.
However, it is important to stress that hospices want to retain their independent status.
The properties will always ultimately belong to the council.
But that was a static state analysis.
The only other point that I make is that you have two buffering mechanisms.
I appreciate your forbearance with that line of questioning.
All I would add is that we must examine how we evaluate quality of leadership.
More sensitive banding arrangements must be introduced, especially to recognise people on lower incomes.
The debate has been useful, despite some concerns about its early timing.
At the end of the day, that puts a heck of a burden on teachers.
We are talking about tax administration, and Governments everywhere face the issue.
How will the no detriment principle work to achieve revenue neutrality.
Well, I would argue that that is just semantics.
We will have the opportunity to ask you questions at a later stage.
It is a big tourism question for everyone.
There was competition between nurses and social workers.
Perhaps he will tell us.
I have some confidence that, over time, it will be read and considered.
That is not a particular difficulty.
I welcome the first part of Lord James Douglas Hamiltons comments.
One reason for that decision was the practicalities of implementing an income tax.
We will now move into private session.
Indeed, the fact that money will now go to landlords is itself a major concession.
We register matters such as trade union membership and gifts.
That was a ridiculous point to make.
I will read out a few comments from parents who attended the performance.
As you might imagine, we considered that in considerable detail.
There are two key points in all this.
We know that it is provided well in certain places, but that provision is patchy.
The only thing that we do regionally is regional campaigns.
For example, the section on election expenses is clearly relevant only to the councillors code.
We expect the developers to bear a significant part of the cost of those improvements.
We must promote such engagement.
Is that complete or just about complete.
To an extent, that has happened.
You should be drawing to a close, please.
It has provided what information it can.
John Whiting gave an interesting concrete example in relation to that.
I agree, although I have a slight reservation.
You put it perfectly clearly previously, and others have, too.
On top of that, the Government is constructing even more regulations and barriers.
Both sides in the debate have published policy documents and papers.
Like other members, I wish it every success for the future.
The proposals that have caused most discussion are the income tax proposals.
We have made good speed today.
I am pleased that you said that.
They all have different expertise.
New funding possibilities undoubtedly exist.
That makes my point about joint commencement powers.
Members have rightly referred to the eco schools programme and the awarding of flags.
It is not as simple as that.
Because your proposal would have the unacceptable economic consequence of fiscal flight.
There is a debate to be had.
We are pro sub member state Government involvement.
A quotation is a quotation.
